                        PIEBALD RATS AND SELECTION

               AN EXPERIMENTAL TEST OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
                  SELECTION AND OF THE THEORY OF GAMETIC
                       PURITY IN MENDELIAN CROSSES

                                    BY
                    W. E. CASTLE AND JOHN C. PHILLIPS

                              [Illustration]

                            WASHINGTON, D. C.
           PUBLISHED BY THE CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON
                                   1914

         CARNEGIE INSTITUTION OF WASHINGTON, PUBLICATION NO. 195

          PAPER NO. 21 OF THE STATION FOR EXPERIMENTAL EVOLUTION
                     AT COLD SPRING HARBOR, NEW YORK

                     FROM THE LABORATORY OF GENETICS
                        OF THE BUSSEY INSTITUTION

                           Copies of this Book
                            were first issued
                               FEB 18 1914

                      PRESS OF GIBSON BROTHERS, INC.
                            WASHINGTON, D. C.




CONTENTS.


                                                  Page.

  Introduction                                       5

  Material and methods                               7

  Plus selection series                              9

  Minus selection series                            12

  Return selection                                  13

  Crosses with wild rats                            16

  Crosses with black “Irish” rats                   18

  Plus selection of “extracted hooded” rats         20

  Crosses of the plus race with the minus race      22

  Summary of results                                22

  Discussion                                        23

  The “mutant” series                               25

  Bibliography                                      31

  Tables                                         32-54

  Explanation of plates                             56




PIEBALD RATS AND SELECTION.




INTRODUCTION.


The fundamental importance of Mendel’s law of heredity is generally
recognized among biologists. It is a working hypothesis whose utility
is fully substantiated by abundant results daily increasing in amount.
But biologists are not in agreement as to how much this law includes.
All perhaps would agree that it implies the existence in the germ-cell
of specific determiners essential for the production of particular
characteristics in the offspring. Further, no one probably will object
to the statement that it implies a dual or duplex condition of the
zygote as regards determiners and a simple or simplex condition of the
gamete. Thirdly, the fact will be admitted by all that most mendelizing
characters are wholly independent of each other in heredity, for which
reason we are forced to suppose that their determiners are distinct
within the germ-cell.

But beyond these few generalizations great diversity of opinion
exists. As regards the very nature and function of the determiners,
some consider them unvarying, and explain the observed variation of
mendelizing characters in organisms as due to a modifying action of other
determiners. At one time even a modifying action of other determiners
was denied, and the theory was advanced that the gametes extracted from
a mendelian cross are _pure_ as regards the single characters which
may have been concerned in that cross. Investigations carried out by
Castle have done something to dispel this idea. In particular it was
shown (Castle, 1905, 1906; Castle and Forbes, 1906) that in guinea-pigs,
polydactylism, long-hair, and rough coat are mendelizing characters which
are affected in the degree of their development by crosses—that is, when
these characters are “extracted” from crosses the characters are not
exactly the same as before; hence the gametes are not “pure.”

The experimental result is not denied, but in order to save the substance
of the theory its advocates now suppose that the determiners have not
changed, but in consequence of the cross certain modifiers have become
associated with them which change their appearance in the organism. The
real unchanging thing is now called the “genotype,” its appearance the
“phenotype.”

In this genotype theory we are dealing only with a new and more refined
aspect of the “theory of pure gametes.” It is not a necessary part of
mendelism, not even an original part; but it is very important for us to
know whether it is true or not. For if it is true, selection unattended
by hybridization is largely a waste of time, as De Vries and Johannsen
have maintained, and Jennings and Pearl have reiterated.

The investigation which we are about to describe was started six years
ago to test the validity of the theory of pure gametes which was then
current. Pure “genes” had not yet been invented. The investigation has
been in continuous progress ever since, and while we expect to continue
it further, it seems to us desirable that the results already obtained be
presented for criticism.

Some conception of the work entailed in the investigation may be gathered
from the statement that we have during its progress reared and studied
the color pattern of over 25,000 rats. A long and arduous investigation
of this kind has been made possible by a series of grants from the
Carnegie Institution of Washington made to the senior author, for which
he here makes grateful acknowledgment. Thanks are also due to Dean W. C.
Sabine, of Harvard University, for encouraging and supporting the work in
a variety of ways.




MATERIAL AND METHODS.


In June 1906 Dr. Hansford MacCurdy completed, under the direction of
the senior author, a study of the inheritance of color in rats. His
studies had shown that the piebald pattern of “hooded” rats behaves as
a mendelian recessive character in relation to the uniform or nearly
uniform coloration of wild rats, but that the hooded pattern, when
extracted from a cross with wild stock, shows a different variability,
the pigmentation of the extracted recessives being increased in extent.
This result was interpreted as showing the unsoundness of the current
doctrine of “purity of the gametes” in mendelian crosses.

Upon the conclusion of Dr. MacCurdy’s experiments, the pedigreed stock
which he had used was not entirely discarded. A certain portion of it
was utilized for new experiments designed to show whether the “hooded”
coat-pattern can be modified by selection unattended by cross-breeding.

Two series of selections were started in October 1907, in one of which
animals were chosen as parents which had pigmentation as extensive as
possible. This we may call the _plus_ series. In the other series animals
were chosen as parents which had pigmentation as restricted as possible.
This we may call the _minus_ series.

During the academic year 1906-7, the experiments were in immediate charge
of Mr. W. G. Vinal; during 1907-8 the plus series was in charge of Mr.
H. S. Rand, while the minus series was in charge of Mr. F. C. Bradford.
Throughout this time the experiments were closely supervised by the
senior author, who assisted in the “grading” of every litter of young. In
October 1908 the junior author began his association in the experiments,
which has continued up to the present time. Throughout these five years
he has looked after the details of the experiments almost continuously,
but both authors have in most cases taken part together in the grading
of the young, and in no case has the grading been done except under the
immediate supervision of one or the other of the authors. This fact is
stated to show that the personal element in the grading has been kept as
constant as possible. In the tabulation of results and computation of
statistical constants, the authors have worked together. This statement
of results is written by the senior author.

During the year 1906-7 the young rats were graded by the method used by
MacCurdy and Castle (1907) that is, the back-stripe was measured and a
calculation made of the percentage of the dorsal surface posterior to the
hood which was pigmented. But on account of the irregular outline of the
back-stripe in many individuals the method of measurement was found to
be at best a rough one, as well as extremely laborious. Accordingly in
the summer of 1907 a set of arbitrary grades was adopted, which is shown
at the top of Plate 1. Each young rat was classed in that grade which it
most nearly approached in amount of pigmentation. Skins of rats graded
from -3¼ to +4¾ are shown in the middle and lower rows of Plate 1. The
grading was done when the rats were about three or four weeks old, at
which time selected individuals were reserved as the parents for a later
generation, the remainder being discarded. This method has been followed
ever since its adoption and the data thus obtained are summarized in the
tables, which cover the breeding operations of a little more than six
years, 1907-1913.

The grouping of the young in a series of generations is only
approximately accurate, for practical considerations have often led us
to mate together animals which belonged to different generations of
offspring. When, for example, an animal of generation 2 was mated with
one of generation 4, the question would arise: To what generation do the
offspring belong? In deciding this question we simply added one to the
mean of the generations to which the respective parents belonged. In the
foregoing case this would be (2 + 4)/2 + 1 = 4.

In case one parent belonged to generation 2 and the other to generation
3, a fractional result would be obtained, thus (2 + 3)/2 + 1 = 3½. In
making up the summaries of the generations as given in the tables,
offspring like the foregoing, of generation 3½, were divided equally
between generations 3 and 4, alternate litters of young as recorded in
the ledger being assigned to each. Offspring belonging to generations 2¾
and 3¼ were tabulated in generation 3; those belonging to generations
3¾ and 4¼ were tabulated in generation 4, etc. While, therefore, the
generations as tabulated overlap, it is clear that they include groups
of offspring of selected parents each the result of _one additional
selection over the preceding group._

The early generations include too few individuals to be of much
statistical value, but where the number of offspring rises to 500 or
over, the statistical constants acquire undoubted value. The data have
been given in the form of correlation tables which will repay careful
study. In the tables a single entry has been made for each individual
offspring in that row which corresponds with the _mean grade_ of its two
parents. Thus, if one parent were of grade 2 and the other of grade 2½,
the offspring would be entered in the row 2¼ along with the offspring
of parents both of grade 2¼. Offspring of parents whose mean grade fell
between the rows given in the tables were divided equally between the
adjacent rows, alternate litters being assigned to each. Thus, if the
mean grade of the parents were 2⅟₁₆, alternate litters of offspring would
be entered in row 2 and in row 2⅛.




PLUS SELECTION SERIES.


This series begins with pairs ranging in average grade from +1.87 to +3.
From these parents were obtained 150 young, which range in grade from +1
to +3, as is shown in Table 1. It will be observed that the lower-grade
parents have on the average lower-grade offspring than the higher-grade
parents. But in no case is the average grade of the offspring as great
as that of their parents. Thus 1.87 parents had 1.82 offspring (average
grade); 2.00 parents had 1.76 offspring; 2.25 parents had 1.87 offspring;
and so on to 3.00 parents, which had 2.35 offspring. There is a falling
back in grade or “regression” of the offspring as compared with their
parents, which increases in amount as the grade of the parents becomes
higher. (See column “Regression” in Table 1.) The parents of this first
generation were chosen because of their high grade. They were all
probably in grade above the general average of the population from which
they were selected. In the case of those which deviate most from the
general average the regression is greatest, as we should expect.

This phenomenon of regression, which is a very general one in cases
of selection, was first observed by Galton in selecting sweet-peas of
varying size from a mixed population. Later Johannsen, who repeated the
experiment with beans, found that by pedigree culture he was able to
break the mixed population up into pure lines within which, considered
singly, no regression occurred. We shall need later to return to this
subject and consider whether pure lines free from regression exist or can
be produced as regards the hooded pattern of rats.

Returning to the examination of Table 1, since the high-grade parents
produce higher-grade offspring than do the low-grade parents, it is
evident that we might hope by further selection either to isolate a pure
line of high-grade rats which would be free from regression and therefore
stable, or else to advance the grade of the offspring still higher,
even though regression persists. As a measure of the extent to which
high-grade parents have high-grade offspring and _vice versa_, in each
generation, we may employ the well-known correlation coefficient. This
for Table 1 is 0.30.

The second generation in the plus series (Table 2) includes the offspring
of parents which appear as offspring of the higher grades in Table 1,
together with a few individuals which appear in Table 2 both as offspring
and as parents of other offspring, by reason of their having been mated
with generation 1 individuals and so having produced generation 1½
offspring, as explained on page 8. To obtain larger numbers of offspring,
several new pairs were added to the experiment in this generation, which
do not appear in Table 1 either as offspring or as parents, but which
were derived from the same general stock as the parents of generation 1.
Their inclusion here accounts for the very low range of the offspring
in Table 2, which extends from -1.00 to +3.75. The parents’ range (means
of pairs) extends from 2.00 to 3.12. The grand average of the parents is
2.52, that of the offspring is 1.92. The correlation between grade of
parents and grade of offspring is 0.32.

From this point on in the series no new stock was added and each
generation of offspring furnished the parents for the following
generation, except for the slight overlapping of generations when parents
of different generations were mated with each other, as has already been
explained.

In generation 3, Table 3, the parents ranged from 2.12 to 3.37 in grade,
the offspring from 0.75 to 4.00. The mean of the parents was 2.73, that
of the offspring 2.51. The degree of correlation between parents and
offspring is expressed by the coefficient 0.33 (a perfect correlation
would give 1.00).

In generation 4, Table 4, the selection of parents became considerably
more rigid; most of the parental pairs were of grade 3 or higher, their
average being 3.09. The average grade of the offspring was 2.73, their
range extending from 0.75 to 3.75. The correlation in this generation
fell very low, to 0.07, not because of a lessened regression but rather
because of a very high regression on the part of the offspring of
high-grade parents.

In generation 5, Table 5, the grade of the selected parents ranged from
2.75 to 4.12, its mean being 3.33. The offspring, showing the usual
regression, ranged from 0.75 to 4.25, their mean grade being 2.90. The
correlation between parents and offspring in this generation was 0.16.
The number of individuals comprising this generation of offspring was 610.

It is scarcely necessary to discuss separately the correlation table
for each of the next eight generations, Tables 6 to 13. The number of
offspring rises to a maximum (1,408) in generation 8, Table 8; then
declines to less than 200 in generation 13. But as this generation and
the preceding one are still being produced, it is probable that the
number recorded will be considerably increased before the generation is
complete. The means of parents and offspring and the other statistical
constants for the several generations can be most easily compared by
reference to Table 14. Leaving out of consideration the exceptional
generation, 2, the following will be observed:

(1) The mean of the selected parents has steadily advanced throughout the
series, as has also that of their offspring.

(2) The variability (standard deviation) of the parents as a group has
decreased somewhat as increase in numbers made a more rigid selection
possible; that of the offspring has undergone a similar change.

(3) The correlation between parents and offspring has not materially
changed. The average of the correlation coefficients for the entire
series is 0.194, for the last three generations it is 0.175, for the
three preceding generations it is 0.141, for the three which precede
those it is 0.185, while for the first four generations it is 0.253. In
every case the correlation is positive—that is, the higher-grade parents
have higher-grade offspring and _vice versa_.

(4) The offspring as a group average lower in grade than their
parents—that is, their mean _regresses_ on that of the selected parents,
but because of the higher mode about which variation occurs in each
generation certain of the offspring are of higher grade than their
parents. Thus an elevation of the grade of the parents in the next
generation is made possible.

(5) With the selection of more extreme parents, the absolute regression
of the offspring has not increased, but on the contrary has slightly
diminished—that is, the advance made by the parents is retained by their
offspring.

In Table 15 have been brought together for comparison the means of the
several horizontal rows of Tables 1 to 13. By examining the vertical
columns of Table 15 the mean grade of the offspring of parents of a
particular grade in any generation may be compared at a glance with that
of parents of the same grade in any other generation. By running the
eye down the columns, it will be observed that the mean grade of the
offspring tends to increase upon repeated selection. Thus parents of
grade 3.75 appear first in generation 4, the grade of their offspring
being 2.75; the offspring of such parents in subsequent generations grade
in order, 3.07, 3.22, 3.35, 3.49, 3.50, 3.69, 3.75, and 3.83 (twelfth
generation not complete). The difference between parents and offspring in
this series grows less and less and finally disappears altogether. If the
grade of 3.75 parents in this series is compared with the grade of _all_
offspring in the corresponding generations we have the following:


TABLE A.

 +-----------+-----------------------+------------------------+
 |Generation.| Mean of offspring of  | Mean of offspring of   |
 |           |    3.75 parents.      |      all parents.      |
 +-----------+-----------------------+------------------------+
 |    4      |  2.75                 |  2.73                  |
 |    5      |  3.07                 |  2.90                  |
 |    6      |  3.22                 |  3.11                  |
 |    7      |  3.35                 |  3.20                  |
 |    8      |  3.49                 |  3.48                  |
 |    9      |  3.50                 |  3.54                  |
 |   10      |  3.69                 |  3.73                  |
 |   11      |  3.75                 |  3.77                  |
 |   12      |  3.83 (35 individuals)|  3.94 (590 individuals)|
 +-----------+-----------------------+------------------------+

In generation 4 the 3.75 parents represented the most advanced
individuals of the series, a whole grade in advance of the general
average of the race. Their offspring showed a correspondingly large
regression. The general average of the race steadily advanced in later
generations until in generation 11 it equaled that of the 3.75 parents;
then the regression vanished. In the following generation, 12 (which
is still incomplete, but in which the average of the offspring thus
far is 3.94), the 3.75 group of parents, which are now _below_ the
average of the race, actually produce offspring of higher grade than
themselves, viz, 3.83. It will thus be seen that the _regression is
uniformly toward the mean of the race and changes its direction when
that mean changes its position with reference to a particular grade of
parents_. This conclusion is supported by other columns of Table 15, but
is best illustrated by this particular case because here the selection
has extended over a greater number of generations than elsewhere in the
series.

If one examines the horizontal rows of Table 15, he finds in general
that numbers increase toward the right. Exceptions are commonest toward
the ends of the rows where fewest individuals are represented. This
increase means that, within any generation, as the grade of the parents
rises, that of their offspring rises also. Since in general the selected
parents are _above_ the general average of the race for the time being,
regression is naturally downward in nearly all cases.

From what precedes we may conclude (1) that in this series of rats the
somatic character (appearance) of an individual is in general a true
indication of its germinal character, since the higher the grade of the
parents the higher the grade of the offspring, and _vice versa_; but
that (2) the somatic character of an individual is not a _perfect_ index
of its germinal character, since the offspring of aberrant individuals
are less aberrant than themselves, _i. e._, the offspring regress toward
the mean of the race; yet that (3) by selection of plus variations we
can displace, in a plus direction, not only the mean of the race, but
also the upper and lower limits of its variation, the total amount of
variability (standard deviation) being thereby only slightly decreased.




MINUS SELECTION SERIES.


This series begins with selected parents ranging in grade from -1.25
to -1.87. Their average, if each pair is weighted in proportion to the
number of its offspring, is -1.46. The offspring (Table 16), like the
offspring of the original plus selections, regress toward grade 0. They
range in grade from +0.25 to -2.00, their mean being -1.00. The total
number of offspring recorded in this generation is only 55, this being
too small to warrant the calculation of a correlation coefficient.

Generation 2 (Table 17) is somewhat larger, but still too small to make
statistical constants based upon it of much consequence. The offspring
show substantially the same range of variation as in the previous
generation, but with a slightly higher average (-1.07). The coefficient
of correlation (-0.03) is negative, but too small to be significant. The
record of the next eleven generations will be found summarized in Tables
18 to 28, or in more condensed form in Tables 29 and 30. Generation 13
(Table 28) is still incomplete.

The mean of the parents steadily rises from -1.56 in generation 3
to -2.50 in generation 13. The mean of the offspring rises by like
increments from -1.18 in generation 3 to -2.39 in generation 13. There
is throughout these generations a positive correlation between parents
and offspring. This amounts on the average to 0.137 as compared with
0.193 observed in the plus selection series. The absolute change in
amount of pigmentation is no doubt less in the minus selection than in
the plus selection series, but if the change were recorded as percentage
decrease of pigmentation in one case and percentage increase in the
other, the change indicated would probably be as great in one as in the
other.

In the minus as in the plus series we observe:

(1) The character of the offspring varies with that of the parents;
high-grade parents have high-grade offspring and _vice versa_.

(2) The variability of the race (as indicated by the standard deviation)
undergoes some reduction and the limits of variation, both upper and
lower, are displaced in the direction of the selection.

(3) The regression from a new and extreme class of parents is at first
large, but decreases as the selection is repeated and finally disappears
altogether when the average of the race becomes equal to the particular
grade under discussion.




RETURN SELECTION.


The plus and minus selection series already described make it clear
that one can, in a race of hooded rats, either increase or decrease the
average pigmentation at will, and at the same time secure more advanced
stages either of pigmentation or of depigmentation than those previously
occurring in the race. The question now arises, are these changes
permanent; will these displaced means retain their new position, if the
race is left to itself; or will the newly obtained stages vanish as soon
as selection is suspended? A presumption that the changes will prove
permanent is afforded by the gradual decrease of regression and its final
reversal in the case of offspring of a particular grade, upon repeated
selection made in the same direction. (See page 12.) But in order to
test the matter more directly and thoroughly, the experiment has been
repeatedly made of reversing the course of selection, after it had been
in progress for several generations, with a view of ascertaining whether
the return toward the former condition of the race would be made more
speedily and easily than the original departure from it had been.

The first experiment of this sort was a return selection from generation
6 (and 6½) of the minus selection series. The parents of generation 6
(Table 21) averaged -1.86 in grade; the average grade of their offspring
was -1.56, a regression of 0.30. The range of the offspring extended
from 0 to -2.50. Some low-grade offspring were chosen for a return
selection series (Table 31). The mean grade of the selected pairs ranged
from -0.37 to -0.87, their mean being -0.60. These parents produced 118
offspring, whose average grade was -1.28, a regression of 0.68 _in a
direction contrary to that of the regression in the minus selection
series_. The large amount of the regression might seem to imply that it
was even more difficult to return toward the former state of the race (in
the neighborhood of 0) than it had been to depart from it, but this can
not be insisted on, because the number of individuals under observation
is not sufficiently large. To test the reality and permanency of the
reversed regression, the selection was repeated five additional times,
altogether six successive return selections being made with the idea of
undoing what had been effected by six original selections in an opposite
direction. The result of the second successive return selection is shown
in Table 32. The parents here were of grade -0.50 and they produced 19
offspring of the average grade -0.95, a regression of 0.45 _away from_ 0
as before.

Table 33 shows the result of the third return selection. Individuals
entered in Table 32 as offspring appear here as parents. Only those pairs
which were of mean grade, -0.25 or -0.37, should really be regarded as a
_third return selection_. They gave offspring with mean grades of -0.63
and -0.86 respectively, which show regression of 0.38 and 0.49 _away
from_ 0.

But Table 33 shows also the character of young produced by -1.12 and
-1.25 parents in this same third return-selection generation, _i. e._,
by _unselected_ parents of the generation in question. Their young
also regress _away from_ 0—that is, in the direction of the original
selection. The -1.12 parents produced -1.61 offspring, a regression of
0.49, while the -1.25 parents produced -1.35 offspring, a regression of
0.10. For Table 33 as a whole the regression _away from_ 0 averages 0.31.

A fourth generation in the return-selection series is summarized in Table
34. The parents are of mean grade -0.63; their 50 offspring are of mean
grade -1.17, a regression amounting to 0.54 _away from_ 0 and in the
direction of the six generations of original selection.

Table 35 contains the results of the fifth generation of the series. The
parents are here of mean grade -0.65. The number of offspring is very
small (13), but they nevertheless show the reversed regression which
characterized the four preceding generations. Their mean was -0.75, a
regression of 0.10 away from 0.

A sixth and final generation in this return-selection experiment is
summarized in Table 36. It includes 36 offspring of mean grade -0.39, the
mean of the parents being -0.26, a regression of 0.13 away from 0. It
will be seen, therefore, that the effect of the six original selections
had not been entirely overcome by an equal number of return selections.
The reason for this is obvious. Much smaller numbers are concerned in
the return selections than in the original minus selections. The return
selections are accordingly less efficient. Nevertheless, after the sixth
return selection we find that 1 in 6 of the offspring have plus grades
and their average is lower (that is, _less minus_) than the offspring in
the minus series after a single generation of selection. (Cf. Tables 16
and 36.)

The amount and persistency of the reversed regression in this series
show clearly that return selection is not easier or more rapid than the
original modification of the race by selection, but that selection in
either a plus or minus direction has cumulative and permanent effects.

Further support for this conclusion is furnished by return selections
(one each) made from the seventh generation, from the eighth generation,
and from the eleventh generation of the minus selection series. (See
Tables 37, 38, and 39.) Generation 7 (Table 22) was produced by parents
of average grade -2.01. Their offspring were of average grade -1.73, a
regression (toward 0) amounting to 0.28. Certain pairs of these offspring
of grade -0.75 and -0.87 (mean -0.78) constitute the return selection
from generation 7 (Table 37). They had 33 offspring of average grade
-1.15, a regression _away from_ 0 amounting to 0.37.

Generation 8 of the minus-selection series (Table 23) was produced by
parents of mean grade -2.05. Their offspring were of mean grade -1.80, a
regression (toward 0) of 0.25. Certain pairs of these offspring of grades
-0.50, -0.62, and -1.00 (mean -0.72), when chosen as parents, produced 41
young of mean grade -1.51, a regression _away from_ 0 amounting to 0.79.
(See Table 38.)

Generation 11 of the minus series (Table 26) was produced by parents of
mean grade -2.30. The offspring were of mean grade -2.15, a regression
of 0.15 toward 0. A pair of the offspring of mean grade -1.62 (Table
39) produced 16 young of mean grade -1.95, a regression of 0.32 away
from 0. This result shows that the selected race had now passed the
point represented by the grade of the parents (-1.62) and the offspring
regressed toward a racial mean as advanced as the most extreme
individuals obtained previous to selection.

To show that, in the plus selection series, a return selection has a
result similar to that just described, two experiments may be cited:

The sixth generation of the plus selection series was produced by parents
of mean grade 3.52, and their offspring were of mean grade 3.11, a
regression _toward_ 0 amounting to 0.41. Certain of these offspring of
mean grade 2.00, when chosen as parents, produced 17 young of mean grade
2.36, a regression _away from_ 0 amounting to 0.36. (See Table 40.)

The eleventh generation of the plus selection series (Table 11) was
produced by parents of mean grade -3.97; their offspring were of mean
grade -3.78, a regression of 0.19 toward 0. Certain of these offspring,
ranging in grade from -2.62 to -3.25 (Table 41), mean -2.79, produced 53
young of mean grade -3.32, a regression away from 0 amounting to 0.53.
The regression in this case, as in all those previously described, was
_toward the racial mean of the previous generation_, which, however, it
has in no case reached.

This can have but one meaning. The genetic character of the hooded rat is
in a general way correctly indicated by its somatic character. _Selection
is therefore immediately effective, whether plus or minus in character,
and whether or not preceded by selection in the same direction or in an
opposite direction._ But regression may be expected from the character
of aberrant parents back toward the normal of the previous generation,
yet this regression will in general be less than the departure of the
aberrant parents from the normal of their generation. If one desires
in such a case to obtain continuous and progressive departure from
the normal in either a plus or a minus direction, he need only select
continuously in the desired direction.




CROSSES WITH WILD RATS.


As a further test of the permanency of the modification effected by
selection in the hooded pattern of rats, crosses have from time to time
been made of the selected races with a pure wild stock, _i. e._, with
ordinary wild animals caught in traps. In all cases the wild animals
used were known to be homozygous as regards gray coat and self pattern,
since when crossed with black-hooded animals they produced only gray
self offspring. In such crosses the hooded pattern is recessive, the F₁
offspring being indistinguishable from ordinary wild gray rats except for
the possession of a white patch of varying size upon the belly, but even
this may be lacking. (See Plate 2, ♂ 8000, 8018, and 8021.)

The grade of the hooded young extracted from a cross with wild animals
corresponds in a general way with the grade of the hooded animal used in
making the cross, as the following cases will show. (Compare also Plates
2 and 3.)

A female of grade -1.87, belonging to generation 2½, minus series
(compare Tables 2 and 3), was crossed with a wild male. (See Plate 2, ♀
6176.) Among her F₂ descendants (cf. Plate 2, 8070 to 8078) occurred 62
hooded individuals, whose grade distribution is shown in Table 42, first
row. Their mean grade is +0.31, although the uncrossed race of the same
grade and generation gave offspring of mean grade about -1.20. The cross,
therefore, had apparently increased the pigmentation of the extracted
hooded recessives. This idea is supported by the result of a control
mating of the particular female used in making the cross. When she was
mated with a hooded male of the same grade as herself, she produced
three young, all of grade -1.00. The extracted recessive grandchildren,
as a group, show greatly increased pigmentation as compared with this,
but vary greatly in the extent of the increase. Some show very little
modification, others very much, the most extreme individual being of
grade +3.50. It was undoubtedly out of just such modified recessive
individuals as this that the material for our initial plus selections
arose; to this point we shall return later.

The F₂ (or second generation) offspring, however, include about 1 hooded
individual in 4. In a total of 962 F₂ young; 230 were hooded, or 24 per
cent. This summary includes only those litters in which dominants as well
as recessives were recorded. In many litters only the hooded young were
recorded, as the special object of the investigation was to ascertain
whether the extracted recessives were like the pure hooded race in grade
or not. In the above summary also the hooded grandparent was in every
case a female. The reciprocal cross is more difficult to obtain, but one
wild female rat, caught in 1911, has bred quite regularly in captivity,
though each time she has murdered her hooded mate prior to the birth of
the young. Her F₂ grandchildren derived from matings with males of the
minus series include 32 hooded and 96 non-hooded individuals, exactly 25
per cent hooded.

A second cross of selected animals of the minus series was made between
a wild male and four females of grade -2 derived respectively from
generations 5¼, 5½, 6½, and 7. As a group these mothers are more nearly
comparable with generation 6, Table 21, than with any other uncrossed
group. As the F₁ progeny of these four mothers by a wild male were mated
_inter se_, it is possible to deal with their hooded grandchildren only
as a group. The character of these is indicated in the second row of
Table 42. They number 48 individuals and have a mean grade of +0.25,
showing a modification in a plus direction similar to that observed in
the previous case.

A third cross in which the minus series is concerned was made between
females of grade -2 and -2.25, generation 10, and wild males. The F₂
offspring include 91 hooded individuals classified as to grade in the
third row of Table 42. Their mean grade is +0.24, confirming fully the
results obtained in the two previous experiments.

With these three cases we may compare three cases in which animals of the
plus selection series were crossed with a wild male. (See the last three
rows of Table 42.) Females of grade +3.00, generation 3, were crossed
with a wild male. From this mating resulted 21 hooded grandchildren,
ranging in grade from +1.75 to +3.50, mean +2.56. These grandchildren,
it will be observed, in no case are of minus grade, as are about half
the grandchildren when the grandparent is of minus grade. There is also
no clear evidence of modification of the hooded character by the cross
in this case. The grade of the extracted hooded individual is just about
what uncrossed individuals of grade +3.00 produced in the corresponding
generation of the plus series.

In the next case two females of the plus series, belonging to generations
5 and 6, respectively, were crossed with a wild male and their children
were bred _inter se_. There resulted 38 hooded grandchildren, as shown in
the next to the last row of Table 42. The range of the grades of these
hooded grandchildren was similar to that of the grandchildren in the
foregoing case, but their mean was somewhat higher, as we should expect,
since they are descended from more highly selected individuals; for the
hooded grandparents in this case were of grade +3.25 (generation 5) and
+3.50 (generation 6), whereas the grandparent in the foregoing case was
of grade +3.00 (generation 3).

It is a noteworthy fact that in both these cases the wild cross does not
seem to have increased the pigmentation in extracted hooded individuals,
as it did when the minus series was crossed, but rather to have
diminished it; yet the difference between observed and expected is not
great. We might disregard it altogether, if a similar but more striking
result were not observable in the third case as well as in another series
of crosses presently to be described.

The third case (last row of Table 42) involves a cross between a female
of grade +4.25, generation 10, plus series, and a wild male. The F₂
offspring include 16 hooded individuals of mean grade +3.15. Animals of
this grade in the uncrossed race in this generation produced young of
mean grade +3.84.

Before leaving this subject it is important to observe the considerable
difference between the extracted hooded grandchildren of the
minus-series rats, as a group, and those of the plus series. The latter
is unmistakably a plus-series group; the former is on the border line
between the two series. (Cf. Plates 2 and 3.)




CROSSES WITH BLACK “IRISH” RATS.


As a control on the results given by the wild crosses, we may examine
the results obtained by crossing the plus and minus selected races with
a black Irish race. The Irish race used for this purpose consisted of
animals black everywhere except on the belly. On the system of grading
used in this paper they would range from +4½ to +5¾, +6 being an
all-black rat.

Crosses of minus-series hooded rats with Irish produced Irish F₁
offspring with rather more white on the belly than the Irish parents
possessed. In the F₂ generation hooded individuals reappeared in
approximately the expected 25 per cent. In a total of 764 second
generation young, 171, or 22.4 per cent, were hooded. The grade of
pigmentation of these extracted recessives as compared with that of their
hooded grandparents we may now consider, as was done in the case of the
wild crosses. (See Table 43.)

Six individuals of the minus selection series, of generation 3½, and of
mean grade -1.50, were crossed with Irish rats producing Irish offspring
which were mated _inter se_. Among the grandchildren appeared the usual
proportion of recessives (hooded), 90 in number. The distribution of
these as regards grade of pigmentation is shown in the first row of Table
43. Their mean grade is -0.62, that of uncrossed hooded rats of the same
grade as the hooded grandparents being -1.31 in generations 3 and 4. In
other words, the cross has considerably increased the pigmentation in
the hooded grandchildren over what was to be expected had the cross not
taken place. Nevertheless the increase in this case is _less_ than in the
similar cross with wild rats. (Compare Table 42.)

In the second row of Table 43 is shown the grade distribution of
extracted hooded grandchildren of two mothers of grade -1.87 and
generation 4. The mean of the 53 hooded grandchildren is in this case
-0.73, that of uncrossed hooded parents of the same grade and generation
being 1.18. This average is probably too low. An examination of the means
of adjacent classes (Table 19) indicates that it should be about 1.35.

In the third row of Table 43 is shown the grade distribution of the
extracted recessive grandchildren of a -2.00 male, minus-series rat, of
generation 7½. The 66 grandchildren are of mean grade -0.94, expected
-1.75.

Comparing the three experiments (first three rows of Table 43), we
see that the more advanced grandparents, in grade and generations of
selection, have the more advanced grandchildren; but in every case these
are less advanced than grandparents of the same sort would have given
had they not been crossed. Hence crossing with Irish has clearly had the
effect of increasing the pigmentation in the minus series in the same way
(but in lesser degree) as did crossing with wild animals.

The results of crossing hooded rats of the plus series with Irish ones
are shown in the last two rows of Table 43. Several rats of mean grade
+2.25 and of generation 2 were crossed with Irish, and their Irish young
were then bred _inter se_, producing 239 hooded grandchildren. These
ranged in grade from -1.00 to +3.25, their mean being +1.27. The grade of
uncrossed rats of like grade and generation to the hooded grandparents
is +1.80. Hence here, as in the cross with wild rats, the pigmentation
has not been increased, but _decreased_ by the cross, contrary to what
we should expect. Further, the departure from expectation is greater in
this cross than in the wild cross. These conclusions are supported by
the results shown in the last row of Table 43. In the experiment here
recorded a +3.00 rat of generation 3 was mated with an Irish rat. The
hooded grandchildren derived from this cross were, as shown in the table,
of mean grade +0.95, expected about +2.50. Since the number of animals
recorded in this experiment is comparatively small, the quantitative
result is less important than that of the foregoing experiment, but
qualitatively the two are in entire agreement.

The various crosses of the selected minus and plus series with wild rats
and with Irish rats respectively are consistent with each other. _In
every case the cross increases the pigmentation of the minus series and
decreases that of the plus series_; in other words, _it undoes the work
of selection to some extent_. Does this mean that the condition created
by selection was in reality an unstable one, so that an outcross tends
to do away with it? We do not think so, but to this question we shall
return again.

The question might be asked whether the modifications produced in the
selected races by a cross with wild or Irish stock are likely to be
more or less permanent than those produced in unselected races by the
same means. A single experiment was made which bears on this question
in relation to the Irish cross. One of the -2.00 grandchildren recorded
in the third row of Table 43 was mated with -2.00 individuals of the
uncrossed stock of the minus series and produced nine young of mean
grade -0.63, the expectation for the uncrossed race of the same grade
and generation being about -1.90. In other words, this extracted -2.00
individual regressed (in breeding) as if it really had been affected by
the cross, even though it did not show it, but the number of young is so
small that no emphasis should be placed upon this result.

From the experiment recorded in the last row of Table 43 were obtained
extracted individuals of mean grade +1.37, which as parents produced
16 young of mean grade +1.68, or, in other words, offspring about like
themselves. Hence the changes effected by a cross are permanent, like
those effected by selection.




PLUS SELECTION OF “EXTRACTED HOODED” RATS.


It has been suggested that the original material out of which the plus
series came consisted of _modified_ individuals produced by a cross with
the wild race. This was not known positively to be so, because part of
the original stock (with which MacCurdy worked) consisted of hooded
black and hooded gray rats captured in company with gray self and black
Irish rats and albinos. Subsequent experiments showed that ordinary
albino rats, if crossed with wild gray ones, will produce in F₂ all
these classes of individuals. This indicated pretty clearly that the
particular colony which had fallen into our hands had probably arisen
by the crossing of an escaped albino rat with wild ones. But it still
remained uncertain what sort of hooded pattern the escaped albino had
transmitted and whether or not this had been influenced by the wild
cross. We therefore determined to ascertain whether out of our minus
series crossed with wild a plus series could be derived. To this end
certain of the F₂ extracted hooded individuals (entered as grandchildren
in Table 42, row 1, and descended from a single hooded individual of
grade -1.87, generation 2½) were mated _inter se_, thus producing an
F₃ generation, Table 44, second row. The selected individuals were the
aberrant male of grade +3.50 and females of grade +1.50, so that the mean
grade of the chosen parents (extracted from the crossed minus series) was
+2.50. They had 34 young ranging in grade from 0 to +3.50, mean +2.06, a
regression of 0.44 toward 0, repeating the phenomenon regularly found in
both selection series.

In this same experiment some F₂ parents of mean grade -0.75 had 19 young
(first row of Table 44), whose mean grade was -0.04, a regression of
0.71 toward 0. We should expect the regression of the offspring of such
parents to be less than that of the offspring of the -2.50 parents, and
so it would be if it were not for one aberrant individual. Larger numbers
of offspring would undoubtedly have given the expected result.

From among the F₃ offspring were chosen parents for the next generation
(F₄). The chosen parents ranged in mean grade from +2.25 to +3.12 (Table
45), average +2.52. They produced 205 young ranging in grade from -0.25
to +3.50, mean +1.86, a regression of 0.66.

The parents for the next generation (Table 46) ranged in mean grade from
+2.00 to +3.00, the mean being +2.27. They produced 119 offspring of mean
grade +2.06, a regression of only 0.21.


TABLE B.—_Comparison of the present series with the more general plus
selection series._

 +----------+------------------------------------------+
 |          |             Present series.              |
 |          +--------+----------+-----------+----------+
 |Selection.| Mean,  |  Mean,   |Regression.|  No. of  |
 |          |parents.|offspring.|           |offspring.|
 +----------+--------+----------+-----------+----------+
 |     1    |   2.50 |   2.06   |    0.44   |     34   |
 |     2    |   2.52 |   1.86   |     .66   |    205   |
 |     3    |   2.27 |   2.06   |     .21   |    119   |
 |     4    |   2.69 |   2.41   |     .28   |    194   |
 |     5    |   2.77 |   2.32   |     .45   |     97   |
 |     6    |   3.08 |   2.67   |     .41   |     45   |
 +----------+--------+----------+-----------+----------+

 +----------+------------------------------------------+
 |          |           General (plus) series.         |
 |          +--------+----------+-----------+----------+
 |Selection.| Mean,  |  Mean,   |Regression.|  No. of  |
 |          |parents.|offspring.|           |offspring.|
 +----------+--------+----------+-----------+----------+
 |     1    |   2.51 |   2.05   |    0.46   |    150   |
 |     2    |   2.52 |   1.92   |     .60   |    471   |
 |     3    |   2.73 |   2.51   |     .22   |    341   |
 |     4    |   3.09 |   2.73   |     .36   |    444   |
 |     5    |   3.33 |   2.90   |     .43   |    610   |
 |     6    |   3.52 |   3.11   |     .41   |    861   |
 +----------+--------+----------+-----------+----------+

The parents chosen from among these offspring ranged in mean grade from
+2.37 to +3.25, average +2.69. They produced 194 offspring of grade +0.50
or higher (F₆, Table 47), the range for the first time lying wholly
in the plus direction. The mean grade of the offspring was +2.41, a
regression of 0.28.

The parents of the next generation (F₇, Table 48) range in mean grade
from +2.62 to +3.37, their average being +2.80. Their 154 offspring range
from +0.75 to +3.75, mean +2.46, a regression of 0.34.

The parents of the last generation in this experiment (F₈, Table 49) were
of mean grade +3.08. They produced 45 offspring of mean grade +2.67, a
regression of 0.41.

As a result of a single cross with a wild race followed by six successive
selections, a narrow-striped or minus family has thus been converted
into a wide-striped or plus family. Considering the smaller number
of offspring from which selections could be made, progress was quite
as rapid in this series as in the larger plus selection series. The
regression is surprisingly similar, generation by generation, in the
two series. (See Table B.) But it seems improbable that the closeness
of the agreement has any significance. _This series has the theoretical
advantage of being derived from a single individual of the minus
selection series._




CROSSES OF THE PLUS RACE WITH THE MINUS RACE.


When animals of the plus selection series are crossed with animals of
the minus selection series, an F₁ generation of offspring is obtained
which varies about a mean intermediate between those of the respective
uncrossed races. Thus, from an examination of Table 50 it will be seen
that when -2 animals of generation 6, minus series, were crossed with
+3.50 or +3.75 animals of generation 5, plus series, an F₁ generation
(Series 1) was obtained consisting of 93 animals of mean grade +0.06.
This generation is rather more variable than either uncrossed race, its
standard deviation being 0.71. The same is true of a second set (Series
2) of crosses made between a male of grade -3.25, generation 10, minus
series, and females of grade +3.75, generation 10, plus series. The 14
F₁ offspring are of mean grade +1 and have a standard deviation of 0.60.
(See Table 50, Series 2.)

In both the series of crosses summarized in Table 50, the F₂ generation
is more variable than F₁. In Series 1, 305 F₂ animals are recorded,
having a standard deviation of 1.01 as compared with 0.71, the standard
deviation of the F₁ generation. In Series 2, the F₂ offspring number 73
and have a standard deviation of 0.87, that of the previous generation
being 0.60.

The mean of the F₂ generation is very similar to that of the F₁
generation. In Series 1, the mean of F₁ is 0.06, and that of F₂ is 0.24;
in Series 2, the mean of F₁ is 1.00, and that of F₂ is 0.72.

It may also be seen from an examination of Table 50 that among the F₁
offspring produced by crossing the plus and the minus series there are
differences in transmission, as there are in the expression of the hooded
pattern. In general those F₁ individuals which are of high grade produce
offspring of higher grade than do their low-grade brothers and sisters.
This is exactly what has been observed in both uncrossed races.




SUMMARY OF RESULTS.


The experiments which have been described in the foregoing pages have
shown that:

1. The hooded pattern of rats behaves as a simple Mendelian character in
crosses with either the Irish pattern or the wholly pigmented condition
of wild rats.

2. Though behaving as a unit, the hooded pattern fluctuates—that is, it
is subject to plus and minus variations.

3. Selection, plus or minus, changes the position of the mean and mode
about which variation occurs.

4. The results of such plus or minus selections are permanent, for return
selection is not more effective than the original selection, and during
return selection regression occurs _away from_ the original mode, that
is, toward the mode established by selection.

5. During the progress of the original selection (thirteen successive
generations) variability as measured by the standard deviation was
somewhat diminished.

6. Upon crossing the selected plus and minus races with each other, the
variability was somewhat increased in F₁ and was further increased in F₂.
The extreme conditions (plus or minus) of the grandparents rarely, if
ever, recur in this generation. Only one individual among 378 F₂ young
has been recorded in a grade as extreme as either grandparent.

7. Hooded animals extracted in F₂ as recessives from a cross with either
Irish or wild rats are as a rule more variable than the selected race
used in making the cross. In crosses with an Irish race the minus series
was affected in like measure. In crosses with wild rats the variability
of the plus series was not appreciably affected (in two experiments it
was slightly reduced, and in one experiment it was slightly increased).
But the variability of the minus race was more than doubled by crosses
with wild rats.

8. The _mean_ of the minus race was lowered by a cross with either the
Irish race or with wild rats, but more extensively by the latter. The
mean of the plus race was lowered a very little by a cross with wild
rats, but considerably by a cross with the Irish race.




DISCUSSION.


It would be possible to suppose, as the senior author has elsewhere
suggested (Castle, 1912), that the Mendelian unit character involved in
these experiments is subject to quantitative variation and that such
quantitative variations have a tendency to persist from generation to
generation. This would account for the effectiveness and permanency of
selection when brought to bear upon the variations. It might also form a
basis for explaining the increased variability which follows crossing,
this being regarded as due to contamination in the heterozygote, but
there are certain other observed effects of crossing which it seems
impossible to account for on this basis. In particular it is observed
that while crossing the minus series makes it _less_ minus as the
hypothesis of contamination would demand, crossing the plus series makes
it _less plus_, the opposite of what a contamination theory would demand.
For we can readily understand, on the basis of contamination, how a +6
gamete being combined with a -2 gamete might change the latter in a plus
direction; but if the same +6 gamete is associated with a +4 gamete we
should expect it, if it has any influence at all, to make this also more
plus, but the observed effect is the opposite; the extracted gametes are
_less_ plus in character.

This difficulty is met by an alternative explanation, the main feature
of which was first suggested by our colleague, Dr. E. M. East, viz, that
although we seem to be dealing with a single unit character as evidenced
by the monohybrid ratios obtained, nevertheless the modifications
which form a basis for selection are due (in part at least) to agencies
transmitted independently of the hooded pattern (not forming a part of
the same unit character), and which may be present in Irish as well as in
wild rats. By crosses with such rats the supposed modifiers may become
associated with the hooded pattern in extracted recessive individuals and
so increase its extent. Such increase does actually occur in experiment.

The hypothesis of modifiers independent in transmission of the hooded
unit will account for the fact that F₂ is more variable than F₁ when
crosses are made, on the familiar principle of recombination of
independent factors. It will account for the observed effectiveness of
selection on the ground that what selection accomplishes in the plus
series is the isolation of homozygous conditions of modifiers at first
present only in heterozygous form, and that what it accomplishes in
the minus series is the isolation of conditions homozygous for _lack_
of modifiers (or for inhibitors) of pigmentation. This same hypothesis
will account also for the observed reduction of variability during the
progress of selection, for as soon as any particular modifier attains a
homozygous condition in the race it will cease to occasion variability,
and as more and more factors become homozygous the variability should
accordingly diminish and finally disappear altogether, so far as it is
due to internal and heritable causes.

At this point the hypothesis of modifiers encounters serious difficulty,
if one holds the prevalent or “genotype” conception as to the nature of
Mendelian factors, viz, that they are fixed and unchangeable and not
subject to quantitative variation, but only to combination in different
ways with other factors. This conception has been presented very clearly
by Dr. East (1912). Some objections to this view had previously been
stated by Castle (1912) and need not here be repeated.

If we assume that there exists at the outset a definite number of
modifiers and that these possess a definite and unchanging power to
modify, then it is evident that selection can do nothing but secure
homozygous conditions as regards the presence or absence of these
modifiers. When such homozygous conditions are secured, selection will
cease to modify the race. The experiment has progressed far enough to
show that extensive modification through selection is possible without
any marked falling off in variability. No indication is observable that
selection will become ineffective before an all-black rat is obtained
in the plus series and an all-white rat in the minus series. A _nearly_
all-black race of rats has already been secured. We propose to continue
the experiments until demonstrative evidence is obtained.

If the fixed-factor idea as regards modifiers of the hooded pattern is
rejected, there remain still two possible alternative views regarding
them. Either we may consider that the modifiers vary in strength, that
is, in power to modify, or we may consider that new modifiers arise
from time to time, which selection may either add in homozygous form to
the germinal complex or reject altogether from it. If we assume that the
modifiers vary in strength, we shall have to grant also the possibility
that the character modified, the hooded pattern, may itself vary in
strength independently of its modifiers. For evidence see the description
of the “mutant” series, page 30. This assumption, I understand, would be
unacceptable to those who hold a genotype conception of heredity, though
we ourselves can offer no valid objection to it.

If, on the other hand, we admit that new modifiers or inhibitors are from
time to time coming into existence spontaneously, and that selection can
use these to modify the pattern either in a plus or in a minus direction,
then we must admit that selection is an agency of real creative power,
able to modify unit characters indefinitely so long as physiological
limitations are not reached.

Now it seems to us probable that what we call the unit-character for
hooded pattern is itself variable; also that “modifiers” exist—that is,
the extent of the hooded pattern is not controlled exclusively by a
single localized portion of the germ-cell; otherwise we should be at a
loss for an explanation of the peculiar results from crossing plus series
hooded rats with those which are still more extensively pigmented; for by
such crosses the pigmentation is rendered not _more_ extensive but _less_
so. This result we can explain on the supposition that the selected
plus series has accumulated _more_ modifiers of the hooded pattern than
the wild race contains, so that a cross tends to reduce the number of
modifiers in the extracted hooded individuals. No other explanation
at present offers itself for this wholly unexpected but indubitable
result. If a different one can be found we are quite ready to discard the
hypothetical modifiers as a needless complication, contenting ourselves
with the supposition that the unit character for hooded pattern is itself
variable, and that for this reason racial change in either plus or minus
directions may be secured at will through repeated selection.

We have been led to adopt tentatively an hypothesis that modifying
factors exist independent of the single factor for hooded pattern (though
both the factor for hooded pattern and its modifiers may, so far as we
can see, be quantitatively variable) by another series of observations,
which will now be described.




THE “MUTANT” SERIES.


In the tenth generation of the plus selection series there appeared two
individuals, a male and a female, of considerably higher grade than any
previously recorded in this series. They are not included in Table 10
because we have been and still are in doubt as to their exact nature and
think it best to give a separate account of them. If entered in Table 10
one would appear as a 5½ individual born of 3⅞ parents (mean grade), the
other as a 5¾ individual born of 3¾ parents (mean grade). The nearest
individuals in grade to these two produced by the same group of parents
are of grade 4½, but some 4⅛ parents of the same generation produced two
offspring of grade 5. (See Table 10.) Because of the marked advance in
grade of these individuals beyond the ordinary range of variation in the
series we called them “mutants,” without wishing then or now to commit
ourselves to any particular theory as to their nature or origin. We
have used the term and now use it as one of convenience merely. The two
“mutant” individuals had the same father and their mothers were sisters.
Their pedigree for two generations is as follows:

  Mutants.        Parents.        Grandparents.
               { ♀ 2956, +3¾ }  { ♀ 1939, +3¾
  ♂ 4763, +5½  { ♀ 2957, +3½ }  { ♂ 1817, +3¾
               {
  ♀ 5153, +5¾  {                { ♀ 1162, +3½
               { ♂ 2963, +4     { ♂ 1810, +3¾

The mutant male was mated with the mutant female and also with other
females of the plus series, with the results shown in Table 51. In every
case the young fall into two distinct groups, one of which varies about
the general mean of the plus series (approximately 3¾), while the other
varies about the father’s grade as a mean (approximately 5½).

The mutant female had 16 young, 6 in the lower group, mean 3.87, and 10
in the upper group, mean 5.60. (See Table 51, lowest row.) The other
females had in all 114 young almost equally divided between the two
groups, 58 in the lower group, mean 3.73, and 56 in the upper group,
mean 5.45. This result indicates clearly (what the sequel also confirms)
that the male mutant transmitted in half his gametes the high grade of
pigmentation which he himself manifested, while in the other half of his
gametes he transmitted the ordinary condition of the plus race at that
time. In other words his “mutant” character behaved as a dominant unit in
relation to the ordinary condition of the plus race.

It is evident that the female mutant was of similar constitution. This
being the case, we should expect three-fourths of the offspring of the
two mutants to be in the upper group. In reality 10 of their 16 young
were of this sort.

The male mutant was mated also with females of the minus series with
the results indicated in Table 52. Again, the offspring fall into
two distinct groups, a lower and an upper. The lower group should be
comparable with the result obtained in F₁ when the plus and minus races
are crossed with each other. (Compare Table 50.) Such it proves to be. It
includes 35 individuals of mean grade -0.49 and standard deviation 0.77.
Series 2 of Table 50 is nearly contemporaneous with this experiment. The
F₁ offspring in that series were of mean grade -1 and standard deviation
0.60.

The upper group of offspring (Table 52) result, we may suppose, from a
mutant gamete (grade about 5½) united with a narrow series gamete (grade
about -2). This group includes 31 individuals varying closely about
grade 4½, and with a standard deviation of only 0.31. The lower average
grade of this group (4.43) compared with the similar group of Table 51,
which had a mean of 5.47, shows the influence of the minus-series gamete
upon the heterozygote in lowering its grade by about 1. Whether the
plus-series gametes have any effect upon the grade of the heterozygotes
recorded in the upper group of Table 51 is not certain, because a
_homozygous_ group of mutants has not yet been established. It may be
observed, however, that one individual in the upper group of Table 51
was of grade 6 (colored all over), and it is possible that homozygous
“mutants,” when obtained, will approximate that grade, as most wild
rats do. Further, a comparison of Tables 51 and 53 shows that mutant
heterozygotes formed by crosses with the plus series are of slightly
_lower_ mean grade than the offspring of the two mutants, among which
should occur both homozygous and heterozygous mutants. It seems probable,
therefore, that homozygous mutants will be found to be of somewhat higher
grade than heterozygous ones.

The question early suggested itself to our minds, will these “mutants”
prove to be mutants in the sense of De Vries? Will they prove to be
more stable than the modifications ordinarily secured by selection in
our experiments? To test this matter, we have raised two additional
generations of offspring from the two mutants and have bred a second
generation of offspring from each of the four groups of F₁ offspring
recorded in Tables 51 and 52, derived from matings with the plus and
minus races respectively.

The F₂ descendants of the two original mutants proved very similar to the
F₁ descendants. (See Table 53.) They fall as before into two groups, an
upper and a lower. The former includes 30 individuals of mean grade 5.52,
the latter 2 of mean grade 3.37. As the parents of this generation were
taken wholly from the _upper_ group of offspring of generation F₁, and as
theoretically that group should contain 2 heterozygous individuals to one
which is homozygous for the “mutant” character, it is to be expected that
in F₂ more than three-fourths of the offspring will fall in the upper
group. For any pair, one member of which is homozygous for the mutant
character, should produce only offspring falling in the upper group; and
offspring falling in the _lower_ group should be produced only by pairs
_both_ members of which are heterozygous.

The upper group in F₂ should contain a larger proportion of homozygous
mutants than in F₁, and since the parents of F₃ were chosen from
this upper group of F₂ offspring, it is not surprising that the 11
F₃ offspring recorded up to this time all fall in the upper group.
The mean of this upper group is remarkably constant through the three
generations, and the variability of the group as measured by its
standard deviation is also low, namely, 0.19. This indicates that the
mutant character is a strongly dominant unit in relation to the ordinary
condition of the plus series.

Table 54 shows the character of the F₂ offspring of the original male
mutant mated with females of the plus series. The lower group parents,
those into which the mutant character did not presumably enter at all,
produced 59 offspring recorded in the first part of Table 54. Their mean
grade is 3.78 and their standard deviation 0.33. These are very close to
the constants of the general plus series, which for generation 10 were
3.73 and 0.36, respectively.

The second division of Table 54 shows the character of the young produced
by the F₁ parents of the upper group (Table 51). Such parents are
supposed to have received a “mutant” gamete from their father, grade
about 5.50, and a plus-series gamete from their mother, grade about 3.75.
If they produce gametes of these same two sorts, their offspring should
also fall into two corresponding groups; in fact they do. There are 11
offspring of mean grade 3.86 and 79 offspring of mean grade 5.50. As in
the previous generation, the two groups do not approach each other in
grade. The mean and standard deviation of the lower group of offspring
are similar to those of the plus race. The mean of the upper group is
about the same as that of their parents (upper group of offspring, Table
51), namely, 5.50, as compared with 5.45; their standard deviation
is somewhat lower, namely, 0.15, as compared with 0.23. This result
indicates that the “mutant” character and the hooded character of the
plus series segregate from each other in a simple way without modifying
each other appreciably. It seems possible that they contain the _same
modifiers_ (if modifiers are present) and differ merely by the main unit
which we called the hooded character in the early part of this paper.
Each contains a different condition of that main unit. Consequently
there is no increase of variability in F₂ when these two conditions are
intercrossed. This we should expect to happen, if they differed by more
than a single factor.

A very different result is obtained from the cross between the mutant
and narrow races. Although F₁ from that cross was quite variable (see
Table 52), F₂ is still more variable (see Table 55). The lower group
F₁ individuals, which resembled F₁ between the plus and minus races,
produced 61 young (first division of Table 55), which resemble F₂ between
the plus and minus races. They range in grade from -2 to +3¼, mean +0.58,
standard deviation 1.17. In the two series of crosses between the plus
and minus races (Table 50) the means were +0.24 and +0.72, respectively,
and the standard deviations 1.01 and 0.87. This indicates, as did the
cross with the plus series, that the “lower group” gametes produced by
the original mutant male did not differ materially from gametes produced
by the ordinary plus race from which the mutant sprang.

The second division of Table 55 shows the character of the F₂ young
produced by the upper group of F₁ offspring recorded in Table 52. It
consists of two groups, a lower and an upper. The lower represents the
extracted minus race, the upper represents the extracted dominants or
mutants, whether homozygous or heterozygous. The former group has an
average of +0.75 and a standard deviation of 1.03, which values are
close to the corresponding constants of Series 2, Table 50, the latest
of the plus-minus crosses, in which the mean was +0.72 and the standard
deviation 0.87.

The upper group offspring of Table 55, second division, the homozygous
and heterozygous mutants, number 68; they have a mean grade of 4.77 as
compared with 4.43 in F₁, which consisted exclusively of heterozygotes.
This shows the extracted homozygotes to be of higher grade than the
heterozygotes. The highest grade mutant among the 31 F₁ young, all of
which were heterozygotes, was of grade 5, but among the 68 F₂ young are
16 of higher grade than 5. We expect one-third of these 68 individuals to
be homozygotes. Now all of the F₂ mutants from the cross of mutant with
plus race (Table 54) were of grade 5 or higher, only 2 in 79 being as low
as 5, and 13 of the 79 being of grade 5¾, a grade not attained at all in
F₂ from the mutant-minus cross (Table 55). This result shows us that the
cross with the minus race does affect permanently the mutant character,
lowering its grade even in homozygous mutants extracted from the cross.
It also increases the variability of the mutants, for the standard
deviation of the mutant group in Table 55 is 0.44, whereas in Table 54
(mutant-plus F₂), in a like number of individuals, it was 0.15, or only
about one-third as great.

That the variability of the mutants is unaffected by a cross with the
plus race, but that it is increased by a cross with the minus race, and
that, further, the mean of the mutants is affected little or none by a
cross with the plus race, but that it is lowered by a cross with the
minus race—these several facts are all conformable with the hypothesis
that _the change in variability due either to crossing or to selection
results from modifying factors_ which, as they are independent of the
main factor concerned, are probably transmitted in a different part or
component of the germ-cell than that factor. For if the mutant and the
plus race are alike as regards the modifiers, but differ only in the main
factor, then no change in variability should result from intercrossing
them, but only alternative conditions as regards the main factor. This
is the observed result. But if the mutant and the minus race differ not
only in the main factor, but also in modifiers which are independent of
it, then, when they are crossed, we may expect that through independent
segregation of main factor and modifiers the extracted minus race will be
raised in grade, while the extracted mutants are lowered, and both will
become more variable. This also is the observed result.

One objection may be offered to this interpretation, namely, that
the increased variability is not delayed until F₂, but is already in
evidence to some extent in F₁. The same thing was observable in the
crosses of the plus and minus series (Table 50). From that table, Series
1, it will be observed that when the plus and minus races had standard
deviations of 0.49 and 0.50, respectively, their F₁ offspring had a
standard deviation of 0.71, an increase by nearly one-half; F₂ showed
a further increase to 1.01. In series 2, Table 50, the uncrossed races
(generation 10) had standard deviations of 0.36 and 0.24; their F₁
offspring had a standard deviation of practically twice this, namely
0.60; F₂ showed a further increase to 0.87.

At the time of the mutant-minus race crosses, the minus race (generation
10) had a standard deviation of 0.24, the plus race of 0.36. F₁ (lower
group) had a standard deviation of 0.77, and F₂ of 1.17. F₁ mutants
(upper group) had a standard deviation of 0.31 which rose in F₂ to 0.44.
These various facts will perhaps be better grasped if presented in
tabular form:


TABLE C.

 +-------------------------------------+-------------------+------+------+
 |                                     |Standard deviation |      |      |
 |                                     | of races crossed, | S. D.| S. D.|
 |                                     |  same generation. | F₁   | F₂   |
 +-------------------------------------+---------+---------+------+------+
 |Plus-minus cross, series 1 (Table 50)|    0.49 |    0.50 | 0.71 | 1.01 |
 |Plus-minus cross, series 2 (Table 50)|     .36 |     .24 |  .60 |  .87 |
 |Mutant-minus cross, lower group      |     .25 |     .24 |  .77 | 1.17 |
 |Mutant-minus cross, upper group      |     .19 |     .24 |  .31 |  .44 |
 |Mutant-plus cross, lower group       |     .25 |     .36 |  .24 |  .35 |
 |Mutant-plus cross, upper group       |     .19 |     .36 |  .23 |  .15 |
 +-------------------------------------+---------+---------+------+------+

The mutant-plus cross, it will be observed, shows no increase of
variability either in F₁ or in F₂, but crosses involving the minus race
show increase of variability both in F₁ and in F₂. Interpreted on a
Mendelian basis, this means that the mutant and plus races on the one
hand and the minus race on the other hand differ by more than a single
factor. If they differed by only a single factor, then crosses between
them should bring no increase of variability, either in F₁ or in F₂. This
appears to be true as regards the mutant and plus races when crossed with
each other. But if the races crossed differ by more than one factor, and
if, further, neither parent is homozygous as regards the factors in which
they differ, then we may expect an increase in variability both in F₁ and
in F₂. This is exactly what we observe when the minus race is crossed
with either the plus race or its derivative, the mutant race.

If we suppose that the plus race and the minus race differ from each
other by certain “modifiers,” we can not suppose that the plus and the
mutant races differ by these same modifiers. They differ in some other
_single_ respect; perhaps that in which they differ is the _main_ hooded
factor. Are we, then, to suppose that the plus and the minus races _do
not_ differ as regards this same main factor? This can not be stated,
but we see no reason for considering them identical as regards that
factor. It appears that the mutant race arose from the plus race by a
single large plus variation, which seems to have its determiner in some
single component of the germ-cell. But the fact that this change came as
a large quantitative variation does not show that small variations are
impossible in that same cell component. It seems to us quite improbable
that the plus mutation could have arisen in the minus selection
series. We believe that the repeated selection which was practised had
something to do with inducing this change in the plus direction. If one
can increase at will the “modifiers” which make the pigmentation more
extensive, it does not seem strange that after a time a readjustment
should occur within the cell which should incorporate modifiers in that
part of the cell which is responsible for the unit-character behavior of
the hooded pattern. This would amount to a quantitative change in the
unit-character for hooded pigmentation.




BIBLIOGRAPHY.


CASTLE, W. E.

    1905. Heredity of coat characters in guinea-pigs and rabbits.
          Carn. Inst. Wash. Pub. 23.

    1906. The origin of a polydactylous race of guinea-pigs. Carn.
          Inst. Wash. Pub. 49.

    1912. The inconstancy of unit-characters. American Naturalist,
          vol. 46, pp. 352-362.

CASTLE, W. E., and ALEXANDER FORBES.

    1906. Heredity of hair-length in guinea-pigs and its bearing on
          the theory of pure gametes. Carn. Inst. Wash. Pub. 49.

DE VRIES, H.

    1901-1903. Die Mutationstheorie. Veit & Co., Leipzig.

EAST, E. M.

    1912. The mendelian notation as a description of physiological
          facts. American Naturalist, vol. 46, pp. 633-655.

JENNINGS, H. S.

    1909. Heredity and variation in the simplest organisms.
          American Naturalist, vol. 43, pp. 321-337.

    1910. Experimental evidence on the effectiveness of selection.
          American Naturalist, vol. 44, pp. 136-145.

JOHANNSEN, W.

    1909. Elemente der exakten Erblichkeitslehre. G. Fischer, Jena.

MACCURDY, H., and W. E. CASTLE.

    1907. Selection and cross-breeding in relation to the inheritance
          of coat-pigments and coat-patterns in rats and guinea-pigs.
          Carn. Inst. Wash. Pub. 70.

PEARL, R.

    1913. Genetics and breeding. Science, n. s., vol. 37, pp. 539-546.




TABLES.


TABLE 1.—_Classification of the first generation of offspring in the plus
selection series. At the head of each column is indicated the grade of
the individuals recorded in that column. The figures in the body of the
table indicate the numbers of offspring of the several grades indicated._

 +--------+--------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |   Grade of offspring.    |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|+1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  1⅞    | 1| 1| 1| 1| 1|  | 1| 1|  |    7  | 1.82 |     .05   |
 |  2     | 4| 1| 3| 1| 4| 1| 4|  |  |   18  | 1.76 |     .24   |
 |  2⅛    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |  2¼    | 3| 1| 3| 1| 6| 2| 2| 2|  |   20  | 1.87 |     .38   |
 |  2⅜    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |  2½    | 5|  | 3| 1|13| 1| 8| 5| 1|   37  | 2.06 |     .44   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1| 2| 1|    5  | 2.15 |     .47   |
 |  2¾    | 7|  | 3| 2|17| 1|12|  | 9|   51  | 2.12 |     .63   |
 |  2⅞    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |  3     |  |  |  | 2| 3| 1| 3|  | 3|   12  | 2.35 |     .65   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.51|20| 3|13| 8|44| 7|31|10| 4|  150  | 2.05 |     .46   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 2.—_Classification of offspring in generation 2, plus selection
series._

 +--------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
 | Grade  |                 Grade of offspring.                       |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |parents.|-1|-¾|-½|-¼| 0|+¼| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|3¾|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |  2     |  |  | 1|  | 1|  |  | 4| 2| 5| 7| 3| 7| 8| 2| 3| 2| 1|  |  |
 |  2⅛    | 1|  | 1|  | 2| 1| 3| 5|12| 8| 5| 5| 8| 2| 1| 2|  |  |  |  |
 |  2¼    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1| 3| 1| 1|  | 1|  |  |  |  |
 |  2⅜    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1| 4| 9| 7| 8| 8| 6| 1|  |  |  |
 |  2½    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4|22|16|19|11|21|13| 7|10| 9| 1|  |  |
 |  2⅝    |  |  |  |  | 1|  | 2|  | 3| 1|  | 6| 5| 7| 9| 6| 3| 1|  |  |
 |  2¾    |  |  |  | 1|  |  |  | 3| 4| 2| 6| 5| 9| 6| 9| 6| 1|  |  |  |
 |  2⅞    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1|  | 1| 3| 5| 3| 9| 1|  |  |  |
 |  3     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 2| 3| 2|14| 7| 4| 5|11| 6| 3| 1|
 |  3½    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2|  | 1|  | 2|  |  |  |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |    2.52| 1| -| 2| 1| 4| 1| 5|16|45|37|45|45|77|57|44|48|30| 9| 3| 1|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |       |      |           |
 |   of   |Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|       |      |           |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2     |   46  | 1.70 |     .30   |
 |  2⅛    |   56  | 1.28 |     .82   |
 |  2¼    |    8  | 1.87 |     .38   |
 |  2⅜    |   45  | 1.92 |     .45   |
 |  2½    |  133  | 1.80 |     .70   |
 |  2⅝    |   44  | 2.11 |     .51   |
 |  2¾    |   52  | 1.92 |     .83   |
 |  2⅞    |   23  | 2.41 |     .46   |
 |  3     |   59  | 2.47 |     .53   |
 |  3½    |    5  | 2.50 |     .62   |
 |        +-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |       |      |           |
 | or     |       |      |           |
 |means,  |       |      |           |
 |    2.52|  471  | 1.92 |     .60   |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 3.—_Classification of offspring in generation 3, plus selection
series._

 +--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
 | Grade  |          Grade of offspring.            |Totals.              |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+      Means.         |
 |parents.| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|3¾| 4|          Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+--------+
 |  2⅛    |  |  | 1| 1| 5| 6| 4| 1| 3|  |  |  |  |  |  21 | 2.06 |  .06   |
 |  2¼    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |        |
 |  2⅜    |  |  |  |  | 5| 5| 1| 4| 2|  |  |  |  |  |  17 | 2.15 |  .22   |
 |  2½    | 1| 2| 1| 2| 5| 5|10|10| 9| 7| 2|  |  |  |  54 | 2.32 |  .18   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  | 2| 1| 3| 9| 4| 5|15|18| 3| 1| 2| 1|  64 | 2.64 | -.02   |
 |  2¾    |  |  |  | 2| 1| 7|10| 7| 7| 7| 1| 1|  |  |  43 | 2.46 |  .29   |
 |  2⅞    |  |  | 1|  |  | 7| 3| 7| 9|10| 9| 1|  |  |  47 | 2.70 |  .17   |
 |  3     |  |  |  | 2| 1|12|14|11|17|11| 3|  |  |  |  71 | 2.49 |  .51   |
 |  3⅛    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2| 5| 1| 2|  |  |  10 | 3.07 |  .05   |
 |  3¼    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 2|  | 1| 2|  |   6 | 3.17 |  .08   |
 |  3⅜    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2| 1| 3| 2|  |  |  |   8 | 2.91 |  .46   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+--------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |        |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |        |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |        |
 |    2.73| 1| 2| 5| 8|20|51|46|47|66|63|21| 6| 4| 1| 341 | 2.51 |  .22   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+--------+


TABLE 4.—_Classification of offspring, generation 4, plus selection
series._

 +--------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
 | Grade  |          Grade of offspring.          |Totals.                |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+--+--+--+      Means.           |
 |parents.| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3 |3¼|3½|3¾|            Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+--+--+--+-----+------+----------+
 |  2½    |  |  |  |  | 2|  | 2|  | 4|  3|  |  |  |  11 | 2.55 |    .05   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |  |  |  |     |      |          |
 |  2¾    |  |  |  |  |  | 3| 3| 2| 3|  4| 3|  |  |  18 | 2.65 |    .10   |
 |  2⅞    |  | 1|  |  |  |  | 3| 3| 7| 15| 4| 3| 2|  37 | 2.97 |    .10   |
 |  3     |  | 1|  | 1| 7|12|25|19|35| 29| 9| 4| 1| 143 | 2.60 |    .40   |
 |  3⅛    |  |  | 1|  | 2|11|14|21|28| 30|11| 2| 2| 122 | 2.69 |    .43   |
 |  3¼    |  |  |  | 1|  | 1| 6| 8|13| 17| 9| 8| 1|  64 | 2.89 |    .36   |
 |  3⅜    |  |  |  |  | 1|  | 6| 2| 3|  9| 2|  |  |  23 | 2.70 |    .67   |
 |  3½    |  |  |  |  |  | 3| 1|  | 2|  3| 6| 2| 3|  20 | 3.02 |    .48   |
 |  3⅝    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |  |  |  |     |      |          |
 |  3¾    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 3| 1|  1| 1|  |  |   6 | 2.75 |   1.00   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+--+--+--+-----+------+----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |  |  |  |     |      |          |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |  |  |  |     |      |          |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |  |  |  |     |      |          |
 |    3.09| 1| 1| 1| 2|12|30|60|58|96|110|45|19| 9| 444 | 2.73 |    .36   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+--+--+--+-----+------+----------+


TABLE 5.—_Classification of generation 5, plus selection series._

 +--------+-----------------------------------------------+
 | Grade  |             Grade of offspring.               |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+
 |parents.| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½| 2¾| 3 | 3¼|3½|3¾| 4|4¼|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+
 |  2¾    |  |  |  |  |  | 1|  |  |  2|  4|  4| 1|  |  |  |
 |  2⅞    |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4| 4|  4|  2|  3| 2| 2|  |  |
 |  3     |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 5|  3|  2|  3| 1|  |  |  |
 |  3⅛    |  | 1| 1| 1| 1| 8| 9|14| 20| 29| 18| 8| 3| 1|  |
 |  3¼    | 1| 1| 1|  | 4|12| 6|14| 24| 39| 27| 7|  | 1| 1|
 |  3⅜    |  |  |  | 1| 1| 5|14|11| 25| 36| 28|15| 7| 2|  |
 |  3½    |  |  |  |  |  | 6| 5|10| 14| 16|  8| 8| 3|  |  |
 |  3⅝    |  |  |  |  |  | 3| 3| 5|  7| 16| 12|11| 4| 3|  |
 |  3¾    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2|  2|  4|  3| 2| 1|  |  |
 |  3⅞    |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1|   |  1|   | 1| 2| 2|  |
 |  4     |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1|  |   |  1|  1| 1| 2| 1|  |
 |  4⅛    |  |  |  |  |  | 1|  |  |   |  1|   |  |  | 1|  |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |
 |    3.33| 1| 2| 2| 2| 6|35|44|66|101|151|107|57|24|11| 1|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+

 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |       |      |           |
 |  of    |Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|       |      |           |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2¾    |   12  | 3.00 |    -.25   |
 |  2⅞    |   21  | 2.87 |       0   |
 |  3     |   15  | 2.81 |     .19   |
 |  3⅛    |  114  | 2.81 |     .31   |
 |  3¼    |  138  | 2.81 |     .44   |
 |  3⅜    |  145  | 2.94 |     .43   |
 |  3½    |   69  | 2.86 |     .64   |
 |  3⅝    |   64  | 3.08 |     .54   |
 |  3¾    |   14  | 3.07 |     .68   |
 |  3⅞    |    8  | 3.35 |     .52   |
 |  4     |    7  | 3.36 |     .64   |
 |  4⅛    |    3  | 3.00 |    1.12   |
 |        +-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |       |      |           |
 | or     |       |      |           |
 |means,  |       |      |           |
 |    3.33|  610  | 2.90 |     .43   |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 6.—_Classification of generation 6, plus selection series._

 +--------+------------------------------------------+--------------------+
 | Grade  |          Grade of offspring.             |Totals.             |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+      Means.        |
 |parents.|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½| 2¾| 3 | 3¼| 3½|3¾| 4|4¼|4½|         Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-----+------+-------+
 | 3      |  |  |  |  |  |  1|   |   |   | 1|  |  |  |   2 |      |       |
 | 3⅛     |  | 3| 4| 1| 1|  4|  7|  5|  3|  |  |  |  |  28 | 2.84 |  .28  |
 | 3¼     | 1|  | 3| 3| 8| 26| 31| 31| 24|15| 1|  |  | 143 | 3.10 |  .15  |
 | 3⅜     | 1|  | 5| 6|13| 20| 28| 30| 14| 5|  |  |  | 123 | 2.96 |  .41  |
 | 3½     |  | 1| 9| 4|15| 29| 49| 41| 43|17| 4|  |  | 212 | 3.10 |  .40  |
 | 3⅝     |  |  | 4| 8|11| 24| 34| 36| 37|21| 5|  | 1| 181 | 3.16 |  .46  |
 | 3¾     | 1| 1| 2| 1| 3|  4| 18| 13| 20|13| 2|  |  |  78 | 3.22 |  .53  |
 | 3⅞     |  |  | 4| 1| 3|  5| 14| 15| 20|14| 4|  |  |  80 | 3.26 |  .61  |
 | 4      |  |  | 1|  |  |   |  2|  1|  5| 4| 1|  |  |  14 | 3.41 |  .59  |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-----+------+-------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |     |      |       |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |     |      |       |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |     |      |       |
 |    3.52| 3| 5|32|24|54|113|183|172|166|90|17|  | 1| 861 | 3.11 |  .41  |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-----+------+-------+


TABLE 7.—_Classification of generation 7, plus selection series._

 +--------+----------------------------------------------+
 | Grade  |             Grade of offspring.              |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+
 |parents.|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½| 2¾| 3 | 3¼| 3½| 3¾| 4|4¼|4½|4¾|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+
 |  3⅛    |  |  | 2| 2| 4|  5|  7|  4|  3|  1|  |  |  |  |
 |  3¼    | 1|  | 6|11| 7| 11| 30| 19| 22| 23| 1|  |  |  |
 |  3⅜    | 1| 2|10|18|17| 21| 27| 18| 21| 20| 4| 1|  |  |
 |  3½    |  |  | 6| 9| 9| 21| 31| 28| 35| 34| 3| 1|  |  |
 |  3⅝    |  |  | 7|11|13| 26| 47| 53| 75| 49| 7| 1|  |  |
 |  3¾    |  |  | 2| 3| 3| 16| 28| 25| 58| 42| 4| 3|  |  |
 |  3⅞    |  |  | 2| 1| 2|  4| 10| 12| 23| 21| 6| 6| 2| 1|
 |  4     |  |  |  |  | 1|  1|  3|   |  2|  4| 3|  |  | 1|
 |  4⅛    |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  1|  1| 1|  |  |  |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |
 |    3.56| 2| 2|35|55|56|105|183|159|240|195|29|12| 2| 2|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+

 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |       |      |           |
 |  of    |Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|       |      |           |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 |  3⅛    |   28  | 2.87 |     .25   |
 |  3¼    |  131  | 3.09 |     .16   |
 |  3⅜    |  160  | 2.97 |     .40   |
 |  3½    |  177  | 3.18 |     .32   |
 |  3⅝    |  289  | 3.23 |     .39   |
 |  3¾    |  184  | 3.35 |     .40   |
 |  3⅞    |   90  | 3.49 |     .38   |
 |  4     |   15  | 3.53 |     .47   |
 |  4⅛    |    3  | 3.75 |     .50   |
 |        +-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |       |      |           |
 | or     |       |      |           |
 |means,  |       |      |           |
 |    3.56| 1077  | 3.20 |     .36   |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 8.—_Classification of generation 8, plus series._

 +--------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
 | Grade  |       Grade of offspring.             |Totals.                |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+      Means.           |
 |parents.|1¾| 2|2¼|2½| 2¾| 3 | 3¼| 3½|3¾| 4|4¼|4½|            Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+------+------+---------+
 |  3¼    |  |  |  |  |  |  2|   |  2|   |  |  |  |    4 | 3.25 |    0    |
 |  3⅜    |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |      |      |         |
 |  3½    |  |  |  | 1| 4|  6|  9| 18| 17| 2| 2|  |   59 | 3.46 |   .04   |
 |  3⅝    | 1| 2| 9|13|30| 69| 44|144|149|22| 1|  |  484 | 3.50 |   .12   |
 |  3¾    |  | 2| 1| 9|12| 55| 39|152|173|23| 2|  |  469 | 3.49 |   .26   |
 |  3⅞    |  | 1| 2|  | 4| 23| 18| 98| 69|19| 2| 1|  238 | 3.53 |   .34   |
 |  4     |  |  | 1| 2| 3| 10|  6| 34|  6| 1| 1|  |   64 | 3.31 |   .69   |
 |  4⅛    |  |  |  |  | 2|  5|  2| 14| 13|14|10|  |   60 | 3.72 |   .40   |
 |  4¼    |  |  |  |  |  |   |  1|  7| 11| 2| 1|  |   22 | 3.69 |   .56   |
 |  4⅜    |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  2| 5| 1|  |    8 | 3.96 |   .41   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+------+------+---------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |      |      |         |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |      |      |         |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |      |      |         |
 |    3.75| 1| 5|13|25|55|170|119|469|440|88|20| 1| 1408 | 3.48 |   .27   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+------+------+---------+


TABLE 9.—_Classification of generation 9, plus series._

 +--------+----------------------------------------+----------------------+
 | Grade  |       Grade of offspring.              |Totals.               |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+      Means.          |
 |parents.|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3 | 3¼| 3½| 3¾| 4 |4¼|4½|           Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+-----+------+---------+
 |  3½    |  |  |  | 1|  |   |  1|  1|  1|   |  |  |    4| 3.25 |   .25   |
 |  3⅝    |  | 1| 1| 6|12| 28| 26| 96| 63| 10| 1|  |  244| 3.43 |   .19   |
 |  3¾    | 1| 2| 4| 7|19| 45| 50|224|212| 25| 2|  |  591| 3.50 |   .25   |
 |  3⅞    |  |  |  | 2| 5| 25| 32|105|177| 64| 8| 6|  424| 3.65 |   .22   |
 |  4     |  |  |  | 1| 2|  5|   | 14| 15|  7|  | 1|   45| 3.57 |   .43   |
 |  4⅛    |  |  |  |  |  |  2|   |   |  4|  1|  |  |    7| 3.57 |   .55   |
 |  4¼    |  |  |  |  |  |   |  1|   |  1|  2|  |  |    4| 3.75 |   .50   |
 |  4⅜    |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |  3|   |   |  |  |    3| 3.50 |   .87   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+-----+------+---------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |  |  |     |      |         |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |  |  |     |      |         |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |  |  |     |      |         |
 |    3.78| 1| 3| 5|17|38|105|110|443|473|109|11| 7| 1322| 3.54 |   .24   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+--+--+-----+------+---------+


TABLE 10.—_Classification of generation 10, plus series._

 +--------+-----------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |       Grade of offspring.         |       |      |           |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼| 3½| 3¾| 4 |4¼|4½| 5|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  3¾    |  | 1| 1| 9|13| 63|117| 44| 8| 1|  |  257  | 3.69 |     .06   |
 |  3⅞    | 1|  | 3| 3|16| 95|142| 62|20| 5|  |  347  | 3.72 |     .15   |
 |  4     |  |  |  |  | 4| 26| 61| 20| 7| 2|  |  120  | 3.76 |     .24   |
 |  4⅛    |  |  |  |  |  | 11| 17|  7| 6| 1| 2|   44  | 3.87 |     .25   |
 |  4¼    |  |  |  |  |  |  1|  4|  2| 1|  |  |    8  | 3.84 |     .41   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    3.88| 1| 1| 4|12|33|196|341|135|42| 9| 2|  776  | 3.73 |     .15   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 11.—_Classification of generation 11, plus series._

 +--------+--------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of offspring.       |       |      |           |
 |  of    +--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|2¾| 3|3¼| 3½| 3¾| 4 |4¼|4½|4¾| 5|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  3¾    |  |  |  |  2|  7|  2|  |  |  |  |   11  | 3.75 |       0   |
 |  3⅞    | 2| 7|17| 87|162| 41|11| 3| 3|  |  333  | 3.70 |     .17   |
 |  4     |  | 3| 2| 25| 87| 65|24| 6| 1| 1|  214  | 3.87 |     .13   |
 |  4⅛    |  | 3| 3| 16| 49| 27| 8| 2| 2|  |  110  | 3.81 |     .31   |
 |  4¼    |  |  |  |  2| 13|  5| 3| 1| 1|  |   25  | 3.91 |     .34   |
 |  4⅜    |  |  |  |   |  1|  3|  |  |  |  |    4  | 3.94 |     .43   |
 |        +--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    3.97| 2|13|22|132|319|143|46|12| 7| 1|  697  | 3.78 |     .19   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 12.—_Classification of generation 12, plus series._

 +--------+----------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |       Grade of offspring.        |       |      |           |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|2½| 3|3¼|3½| 3¾| 4 |4¼|4½|4¾| 5|5¼|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  3¾    |  |  |  |  |  4| 20| 7| 4|  |  |  |   35  | 3.83 |    -.08   |
 |  3⅞    |  |  |  | 2| 19| 17| 6| 2| 2|  |  |   48  | 3.96 |     .09   |
 |  4     |  | 1| 1|10| 53| 59|12| 5| 1| 1| 2|  145  | 3.93 |     .07   |
 |  4⅛    | 1|  | 2|17| 86| 83|28| 6| 3| 1|  |  227  | 3.91 |     .21   |
 |  4¼    |  | 1|  | 7| 19| 29|11| 3| 1|  |  |   71  | 3.94 |     .31   |
 |  4⅜    |  |  |  | 3|  6| 14|10| 7| 3| 1| 1|   45  | 4.13 |     .24   |
 |  4½    |  |  |  |  |  1|  4| 1|  |  | 1|  |    7  | 4.14 |     .36   |
 |  4⅝    |  | 1|  |  |  3|  4| 3|  |  |  |  |   11  | 3.90 |     .72   |
 |  5     |  |  |  |  |   |   |  |  | 1|  |  |    1  | 4.75 |     .25   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    4.09| 1| 3| 3|43|207|217|75|23|11| 4| 3|  590  | 3.94 |     .17   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 13.—_Classification of generation 13, plus selection series._

 +--------+-----------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |  Grade of offspring.  |       |      |           |
 |  of    +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|2¾|3¼|3½|3¾| 4|4¼|4½|4¾|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  4     |  | 4|17|23|19| 2|  |  |   65  | 3.67 |     .31   |
 |  4⅛    |  |  | 1| 8|16| 5| 1|  |   31  | 3.97 |     .15   |
 |  4¼    | 1|  | 5|10|20| 6|  | 1|   43  | 3.93 |     .32   |
 |  4⅜    |  |  | 1| 5| 3| 1|  |  |   10  | 3.85 |     .52   |
 |  4½    |  |  | 1|14|15| 7| 3|  |   40  | 3.98 |     .52   |
 |  4⅝    |  |  |  | 3| 1|  | 1|  |    5  | 3.95 |     .80   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    4.22| 1| 4|25|63|74|21| 5| 1|  194  | 3.88 |     .34   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 14.—_Summary of the results of thirteen generations of plus
selection based on Tables 1-13._

 +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
 |Generation.
 |      |No. of offspring.
 |      |      |Mean, parents.
 |      |      |      |Mean, offspring.
 |      |      |      |      |Standard deviation,
 |      |      |      |      |parents.
 |      |      |      |      |      |Standard deviation,
 |      |      |      |      |      |offspring.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |Correlation,
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |parents-offspring.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |Absolute regression of
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |offspring on parents.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |Advance of
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |parents.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |     |Advance of
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |     |offspring.
 +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+-----+------+
 |   1  |  150 | 2.51 | 2.05 | .313 | .541 | .298 | .46 |     |      |
 |   2  |  471 | 2.52 | 1.92 | .307 | .732 | .317 | .60 | .01 | -.13 |
 |   3  |  341 | 2.73 | 2.51 | .285 | .531 | .331 | .22 | .21 |  .59 |
 |   4  |  444 | 3.09 | 2.73 | .215 | .468 | .066 | .36 | .36 |  .22 |
 |   5  |  610 | 3.33 | 2.90 | .240 | .505 | .160 | .43 | .24 |  .17 |
 |   6  |  861 | 3.52 | 3.11 | .209 | .490 | .180 | .41 | .19 |  .21 |
 |   7  |1,077 | 3.56 | 3.20 | .212 | .555 | .215 | .36 | .04 |  .09 |
 |   8  |1,408 | 3.75 | 3.48 | .246 | .439 | .099 | .27 | .19 |  .28 |
 |   9  |1,322 | 3.78 | 3.54 | .112 | .346 | .210 | .24 | .03 |  .06 |
 |  10  |  776 | 3.88 | 3.73 | .112 | .362 | .116 | .15 | .10 |  .19 |
 |  11  |  697 | 3.98 | 3.78 | .113 | .289 | .233 | .20 | .10 |  .05 |
 |  12  |  590 | 4.09 | 3.94 | .176 | .302 | .161 | .15 | .11 |  .16 |
 |  13  |  194 | 4.22 | 3.88 | .433 | .270 | .132 | .34 | .13 | -.06 |
 +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+-----+------+
 |Total |8,941 |      |      |      |      |      |     |     |      |
 +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+-----+------+


TABLE 15.—_Mean grade and number of offspring produced by parents of a
particular grade in each generation of the plus selection series, based
on Tables 1-13. The grade of the parents is indicated at the head of each
column. In the body of the table is recorded the grade of the offspring
(in light-faced figures) and the number of offspring (in =heavy-faced
figures=)._

 +------+-----------------------------------------------------+----------+
 |Generation.                                                 |          |
 |      |              Grade of parents; below,               |          |
 |      |             grade and number of their               |  Total   |
 |      |                     offspring.                      |  number  |
 |      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+    of    |
 |      |  2  |  2⅛ |  2¼ |  2⅜ |  2½ |  2⅝ |  2¾ |  2⅞ |  3  |offspring.|
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+
 |  1   |1.76 |     |1.87 |     |2.06 |2.15 |2.12 |     |2.35 |          |
 |      | =18=|     | =20=|     | =37=|  =5=| =51=|     | =12=|  =150=   |
 |  2   |1.70 |1.28 |1.87 |1.92 |1.80 |2.11 |1.92 |2.41 |2.47 |          |
 |      | =46=| =56=|  =8=| =45=|=133=| =44=| =52=| =23=| =59=|  =471=   |
 |  3   |     |2.06 |     |2.15 |2.32 |2.63 |2.46 |2.70 |2.49 |          |
 |      |     | =21=|     | =17=| =54=| =64=| =43=| =47=| =71=|  =341=   |
 |  4   |     |     |     |     |2.55 |     |2.65 |2.97 |2.60 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     | =11=|     | =18=| =37=|=143=|  =444=   |
 |  5   |     |     |     |     |     |     |3.00 |2.87 |2.81 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     | =12=| =21=| =15=|  =610=   |
 |  6   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |3.25 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |  =2=|  =861=   |
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+

 +------+-----------------------------------------------------+----------+
 |Generation.                                                 |          |
 |      |              Grade of parents; below,               |          |
 |      |             grade and number of their               |  Total   |
 |      |                     offspring.                      |  number  |
 |      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+    of    |
 |      |  3⅛ |  3¼ |  3⅜ |  3½ |  3⅝ |  3¾ |  3⅞ |  4  |  4⅛ |offspring.|
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+
 |  2   |2.50 |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      | =5= |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |   =471=  |
 |  3   |3.07 |3.17 |2.91 |     |     |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      | =10=|  =6=|  =8=|     |     |     |     |     |     |   =341=  |
 |  4   |2.69 |2.89 |2.70 |3.02 |     |2.75 |     |     |     |          |
 |      |=122=| =64=| =23=| =20=|     |  =6=|     |     |     |   =444=  |
 |  5   |2.81 |2.81 |2.94 |2.87 |3.08 |3.07 |3.35 |3.36 |3.00 |          |
 |      |=114=|=138=|=145=| =69=| =64=| =14=|  =8=|  =7=| =3= |   =610=  |
 |  6   |2.84 |3.10 |2.96 |3.10 |3.16 |3.22 |3.26 |3.41 |     |          |
 |      | =28=|=143=|=123=|=212=|=181=| =78=| =80=| =14=|     |   =861=  |
 |  7   |2.87 |3.09 |2.97 |3.18 |3.23 |3.35 |3.49 |3.53 |     |          |
 |      | =28=|=131=|=160=|=177=|=289=|=184=| =90=| =15=|     | =1,077=  |
 |  8   |     |     |     |3.46 |3.50 |3.49 |3.53 |3.31 |3.72 |          |
 |      |     |     |     | =59=|=484=|=469=|=238=| =64=| =60=| =1,408=  |
 |  9   |     |     |     |3.25 |3.43 |3.50 |3.65 |3.57 |3.57 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |  =4=|=244=|=591=|=424=| =45=|  =7=| =1,322=  |
 |  10  |     |     |     |     |     |3.69 |3.72 |3.76 |3.87 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |=257=|=347=|=120=| =44=|   =776=  |
 |  11  |     |     |     |     |     |3.75 |3.70 |3.87 |3.81 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     | =11=|=333=|=214=|=110=|   =697=  |
 |  12  |     |     |     |     |     |3.82 |3.96 |3.93 |3.91 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     | =35=| =48=|=145=|=227=|   =590=  |
 |  13  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |3.67 |3.97 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | =65=| =31=|   =194=  |
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+

 +------+-----------------------------+----------+
 |Generation.                         |          |
 |      |   Grade of parents; below,  |          |
 |      |  grade and number of their  |  Total   |
 |      |          offspring.         |  number  |
 |      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+    of    |
 |      | 4¼  |  4⅜ |  4½ |  4⅝ |  4¾ |offspring.|
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+
 |  7   |3.75 |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |  =3=|     |     |     |     | =1,077=  |
 |  8   |3.69 |3.96 |     |     |     |          |
 |      | =22=|  =8=|     |     |     | =1,408=  |
 |  9   |3.75 |3.50 |     |     |     |          |
 |      |  =4=|  =3=|     |     |     | =1,322=  |
 |  10  |3.84 |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |  =8=|     |     |     |     |   =776=  |
 |  11  |3.91 |3.94 |     |     |     |          |
 |      | =25=|  =4=|     |     |     |   =697=  |
 |  12  |3.94 |4.12 |4.14 |3.90 |4.75 |          |
 |      | =71=| =45=|  =7=| =11=|  =1=|   =590=  |
 |  13  |3.93 |3.85 |3.98 |     |3.95 |          |
 |      | =43=| =10=| =40=|     |  =5=|   =194=  |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     +----------+
 |      |     |     |     |     |     | =8,941=  |
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+


TABLE 16.—_Classification of the offspring in generation 1 of the minus
selection series._

 +--------+-----------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |     Grade of offspring.     |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|+¼| 0| ¼| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 | -1¼    | 1|  |  |  |  | 2|  | 3| 2|  |    8  | 1.34 |    -.09   |
 |  1⅜    | 1| 1| 3|  |12| 8| 3| 1| 1| 1|   31  |  .86 |     .51   |
 |  1½    |  |  |  |  | 1| 1| 1| 1| 1| 1|    6  | 1.37 |     .13   |
 |  1⅞    |  |  | 1| 1| 2| 2|  | 3| 1|  |   10  | 1.05 |     .82   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    1.46| 2| 1| 4| 1|15|13| 4| 8| 5| 2|   55  | 1.00 |     .46   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 17.—_Classification of generation 2, minus selection series._

 +--------+-----------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |     Grade of offspring.     |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|+½| 0|-¼| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |   ¾    | 1|  | 2| 2| 1| 6| 2| 3| 2|  |   19  | 1.04 |    -.29   |
 |  1⅛    |  |  | 2| 2|  | 2| 2| 3|  | 1|   12  | 1.05 |     .07   |
 |  1¼    |  |  |  |  | 4| 6| 3|  | 3| 1|   17  | 1.18 |     .07   |
 |  1⅜    |  | 1|  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1| 2|    5  | 1.45 |    -.08   |
 |  1½    |  |  | 1|  |10|13| 1| 8| 4|  |   37  | 1.11 |     .39   |
 |  1⅝    |  | 1|  |  | 1|  | 1|  |  |  |    3  |  .67 |     .95   |
 |  1¾    |  |  | 1| 1| 2|14| 4| 3| 1| 1|   27  | 1.09 |     .66   |
 |  1⅞    | 1| 1|  | 1| 2| 3|  | 1| 3|  |   12  | 1.10 |     .77   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    1.41| 2| 3| 6| 6|20|44|13|19|14| 5|  132  | 1.07 |     .34   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 18.—_Classification of generation 3, minus series._

 +--------+--------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |     Grade of offspring.  |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0|-¼| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 | -1⅛    |  |  | 2| 1| 1|  | 1|  |  |    5  |  .85 |     .27   |
 |  1¼    |  | 1| 3| 6| 5| 1| 2| 1| 1|   20  | 1.05 |     .20   |
 |  1⅜    |  | 1| 3| 4|11| 3| 4| 2|  |   28  | 1.03 |     .34   |
 |  1½    |  |  | 1| 1|12| 1| 5| 5| 3|   28  | 1.31 |     .19   |
 |  1⅝    | 1| 1| 1|10|10| 5| 8| 8| 4|   48  | 1.22 |     .40   |
 |  1¾    |  | 1| 2| 8|19| 9| 9| 7| 8|   63  | 1.26 |     .49   |
 |  1⅞    |  |  |  |  | 3|  |  |  |  |    3  | 1.00 |     .87   |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    1.56| 1| 4|12|30|61|19|29|23|16|  195  | 1.18 |     .38   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 19.—_Classification of generation 4, minus selection series._

 +--------+-----------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |         Grade of offspring.       |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|+½|+¼| 0|-¼| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 | -1¼    |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1|  | 1| 1| 1|  |    4  | 1.56 |    -.31   |
 |  1⅜    |  |  |  | 2| 3| 4| 8| 3| 1| 2| 6|  |   29  | 1.16 |     .21   |
 |  1½    |  | 1| 1| 3| 2| 7| 7| 6| 8|16| 8|  |   59  | 1.31 |     .19   |
 |  1⅝    |  |  |  | 1|  | 4|10| 4| 8| 7| 6|  |   40  | 1.36 |     .26   |
 |  1¾    |  |  |  | 4| 4| 6|19|11|16|22|11|  |   93  | 1.34 |     .41   |
 |  1⅞    | 2| 1| 2| 6| 1|10|19|12|17|19| 5| 1|   95  | 1.18 |     .69   |
 |  2     |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 2| 3|  | 1| 2|  |    9  | 1.36 |     .64   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    1.69| 2| 2| 3|16|10|32|66|39|51|68|39| 1|  329  | 1.28 |     .41   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 20.—_Classification of generation 5, minus series._

 +--------+------------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |         Grade of offspring.        |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0|-¼| ½| ¾| 1 |1¼| 1½| 1¾| 2 |2¼|2½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ⅞     | 2| 1|  | 4|  5|  |  3|  4|  1|  |  |   20  | 1.09 |    -.22   |
 |  1     |  | 2|  |  |  1|  |   |   |  1|  |  |    4  |  .99 |     .01   |
 |  1⅜    |  | 4| 1| 1|  6| 2| 10| 14| 11| 2|  |   51  | 1.50 |    -.13   |
 |  1½    | 1|  | 3| 9|  9|11|  7|  7|  5|  | 1|   53  | 1.25 |     .25   |
 |  1⅝    |  | 1| 1| 5| 12| 4| 15| 12|  4|  |  |   54  | 1.35 |     .27   |
 |  1¾    |  | 9|14|29| 50|30| 50| 55| 24| 1|  |  262  | 1.30 |     .45   |
 |  1⅞    |  |  |  | 4| 11|12| 29| 50| 31| 6|  |  143  | 1.64 |     .23   |
 |  2     |  | 1| 2|11| 14| 5| 19| 28| 25| 4|  |  109  | 1.52 |     .48   |
 |  2⅛    |  |  |  |  |   |  |  1|  2|  2|  |  |    5  | 1.80 |     .32   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    1.73| 3|18|21|63|108|64|134|172|104|13| 1|  701  | 1.41 |     .32   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 21.—_Classification of generation 6, minus series._

 +--------+------------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |         Grade of offspring.        |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0|-¼| ½| ¾| 1 |1¼| 1½| 1¾| 2 |2¼|2½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 | -1⅛    |  | 1| 1|  |  2|  |  1|   |   |  |  |    5  |  .85 |     .27   |
 |  1⅜    |  |  |  |  |  1| 1|  1|   |  1|  |  |    4  | 1.44 |    -.07   |
 |  1½    |  |  | 1| 3|  4| 4|  4|  6|  2|  |  |   24  | 1.34 |     .16   |
 |  1⅝    | 1|  | 1|11| 16| 3| 17| 28| 17|  |  |   94  | 1.45 |     .17   |
 |  1¾    | 1| 1| 8|14| 39|20| 39| 77| 43|  | 2|  244  | 1.49 |     .26   |
 |  1⅞    |  | 1| 9|24| 61|40| 71|156|127|12| 1|  502  | 1.59 |     .28   |
 |  2     | 1| 3| 5|12| 32|22| 37| 89| 76| 5| 1|  283  | 1.58 |     .42   |
 |  2⅛    |  |  |  | 2|  4| 4|  5| 35| 31| 4|  |   85  | 1.52 |     .60   |
 |  2½    |  |  |  |  |   |  |  2|  5|  3| 1|  |   11  | 1.82 |     .68   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    1.86| 3| 6|25|66|159|94|177|396|300|22| 4| 1252  | 1.56 |     .30   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 22.—_Classification of generation 7, minus series._

 +--------+---------------------------------------+-----------------------+
 | Grade  |         Grade of offspring.           |Totals.                |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+      Means.           |
 |parents.| 0| ¼| ½| ¾| 1 |1¼| 1½| 1¾| 2 |2¼|2½|2¾|            Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+------+------+---------+
 |  1⅝    |  |  |  | 1|   |  |  1|  2|  1|  |  |  |    5 | 1.55 |   .07   |
 |  1¾    |  |  | 1| 2|  1| 1|  6| 11|  9|  |  | 1|   32 | 1.67 |   .08   |
 |  1⅞    | 2| 1| 6| 4| 35|20| 47| 99|106| 6| 3| 1|  330 | 1.65 |   .22   |
 |  2     |  |  | 8|14| 51|60|119|368|324|22| 3|  |  969 | 1.72 |   .28   |
 |  2⅛    |  | 1| 2| 3| 14|10| 30| 92|104| 4|  |  |  260 | 1.74 |   .38   |
 |  2¼    |  |  |  |  |   |  |  5| 10| 19| 6| 1|  |   41 | 1.93 |   .32   |
 |  2⅜    |  |  |  |  |   |  |  2|  2|   |  |  |  |    4 | 1.63 |   .74   |
 |  2½    |  |  |  |  |   | 1|   |  4| 10|  |  |  |   15 | 1.88 |   .62   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  |  |  |   |  |  1|  3|  8| 5| 1|  |   18 | 2.28 |   .09   |
 |  2¾    |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |  3|  3|  |  |  |    6 | 1.87 |   .88   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+------+------+---------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |      |      |         |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |      |      |         |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |   |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |      |      |         |
 |    2.01| 2| 2|17|24|101|92|211|594|584|43| 8| 2| 1680 | 1.73 |   .28   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+------+------+---------+


TABLE 23.—_Classification of generation 8, minus series._

 +--------+-----------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |         Grade of offspring.       |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0| ½| ¾| 1|1¼| 1½| 1¾| 2 |2¼|2½|2¾|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  1⅞    |  |  |  | 1|  |   |  9|  8| 1|  |  |   19  | 1.84 |     .03   |
 |  2     |  | 6| 8|38|22|122|550|423|21| 9| 3| 1202  | 1.81 |     .19   |
 |  2⅛    | 1|  | 3|12| 7| 31|118|187|32| 2| 3|  396  | 1.86 |     .26   |
 |  2¼    |  |  |  | 1|  |  2| 19| 20| 3|  |  |   45  | 1.87 |     .38   |
 |  2⅜    |  |  |  |  | 1|  1| 11| 17|  |  |  |   30  | 1.87 |     .50   |
 |  2½    |  |  |  |  |  |  3|  6| 15| 4|  |  |   28  | 1.93 |     .57   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  |  |  |  |  3|  2|  1|  |  |  |    6  | 1.67 |     .95   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.05| 1| 6|11|52|30|162|715|671|61|11| 6| 1726  | 1.80 |     .25   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 24.—_Classification of generation 9, minus series._

 +--------+--------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of offspring.       |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½| 1¾| 2 | 2¼|2½|2¾|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2     |  | 1|13| 4|36|268|420| 55|10| 4|  811  | 1.90 |     .10   |
 |  2⅛    |  |  | 1| 1|25|110|218| 40| 7| 1|  403  | 1.93 |     .19   |
 |  2¼    | 1|  |  | 1| 7| 43| 77| 12| 6| 1|  148  | 1.93 |     .32   |
 |  2⅜    |  |  | 1| 1| 7| 61| 89| 12| 4|  |  175  | 1.91 |     .46   |
 |  2½    |  |  | 1|  | 2|  6| 23| 14| 5| 2|   53  | 2.07 |     .43   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  |  |  |  |   |  1|   |  |  |    1  | 2.00 |     .62   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.11| 1| 1|16| 7|77|488|828|133|32| 8| 1591  | 1.92 |     .19   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 25.—_Classification of generation 10, minus series._

 +--------+--------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of offspring.       |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|-1|1¼|1½| 1¾| 2 | 2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2     | 1| 2|13|120|287| 43| 7| 2| 2| 1|  478  | 1.96 |     .04   |
 |  2⅛    | 2| 1|15|100|251| 78|22| 4|  | 1|  474  | 2.00 |     .12   |
 |  2¼    |  |  | 5| 45| 92| 58|13| 4|  |  |  217  | 2.05 |     .20   |
 |  2⅜    |  | 1| 4| 16| 60| 29| 6| 3|  |  |  119  | 2.05 |     .32   |
 |  2½    |  |  |  |  9| 27| 19|10| 2|  |  |   67  | 2.13 |     .37   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  | 1|  5| 17| 17| 8|  | 1|  |   49  | 2.15 |     .47   |
 |  2¾    |  | 1| 1|  8| 10|  6| 1|  |  |  |   27  | 1.95 |     .80   |
 |  2⅞    |  | 1| 1|  2|  3|  6| 5| 2|  |  |   20  | 2.19 |     .68   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.18| 3| 6|40|305|747|256|72|17| 3| 2| 1451  | 2.01 |     .17   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 26.—_Classification of generation 11, minus series._

 +--------+------------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |        Grade of offspring.         |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|-1|1¼|1½| 1¾| 2 | 2¼| 2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2     |  |  |  |  7| 26| 14|  3|  | 1|  |  |   51  | 2.08 |     .08   |
 |  2⅛    |  |  | 4| 20| 75| 45| 26|12|  | 1|  |  183  | 2.15 |    -.03   |
 |  2¼    | 1|  |12| 49|111| 76| 50|13| 6|  |  |  318  | 2.13 |     .12   |
 |  2⅜    | 2| 1| 4| 24|112| 66| 33|20| 4| 2|  |  268  | 2.16 |     .21   |
 |  2½    |  |  | 1|  4| 32| 21| 16| 7|  |  |  |   81  | 2.21 |     .29   |
 |  2⅝    |  | 1|  |  3| 18| 15| 11| 4|  |  |  |   52  | 2.20 |     .42   |
 |  2¾    |  |  | 1|  4|  9|  4|  3| 1| 1| 2| 1|   26  | 2.26 |     .49   |
 |  2⅞    |  |  |  |  2|  2|  1|   |  |  |  |  |    5  | 1.95 |     .92   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.30| 3| 2|22|113|385|242|142|57|12| 5| 1|  984  | 2.15 |     .15   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 27.—_Classification of generation 12, minus series._

 +--------+--------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |        Grade of offspring.     |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 1|1½|1¾| 2 | 2¼| 2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2     |  |  | 2|  7|  1|   |  |  |  |  |   10  | 1.98 |     .02   |
 |  2⅛    |  | 1| 6| 65| 26| 15| 4|  |  | 1|  118  | 2.14 |    -.02   |
 |  2¼    | 1| 2|16| 67| 45| 29| 6|  |  |  |  155  | 2.15 |     .10   |
 |  2⅜    |  | 1|21|116| 64| 24| 3| 1|  |  |  230  | 2.11 |     .26   |
 |  2½    |  | 1|12| 81| 75| 53|17| 3|  |  |  242  | 2.24 |     .26   |
 |  2⅝    |  |  | 5| 38| 36| 37|12| 8| 1|  |  137  | 2.32 |     .30   |
 |  2¾    |  |  |  |  8|  7| 14|10| 3|  |  |   42  | 2.45 |     .30   |
 |  2⅞    |  |  | 1|  7|  9| 14|15| 7|  |  |   53  | 2.51 |     .36   |
 |  3     |  |  |  |  5|  5|  5|10| 5| 2| 1|   35  | 2.65 |     .35   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.44| 1| 5|63|394|268|191|83|27| 3| 2| 1037  | 2.23 |     .21   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 28.—_Classification of generation 13, minus series._

 +--------+---------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |     Grade of offspring.   |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|1¾| 2 | 2¼| 2½|2¾ | 3|3¼|3½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2¼    | 3| 30| 12| 17|  4| 1|  |  |   67  | 2.22 |     .03   |
 |  2⅜    | 4| 40| 50| 46| 24| 5| 1|  |  170  | 2.35 |     .02   |
 |  2½    | 4| 32| 34| 47| 26| 8| 2| 1|  154  | 2.40 |     .10   |
 |  2⅝    | 2| 11| 21| 41| 28| 3| 2|  |  108  | 2.47 |     .15   |
 |  2¾    | 1|  5|  2|  9|  7| 6| 1|  |   31  | 2.56 |     .19   |
 |  2⅞    |  |  4|  7|  8|  6| 1|  |  |   26  | 2.43 |     .44   |
 |  3     |  |  3|  1|  5|  5| 1|  |  |   15  | 2.50 |     .50   |
 +--------+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |   |   |   |   |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.50|14|125|127|173|100|25| 6| 1|  571  | 2.39 |     .11   |
 +--------+--+---+---+---+---+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 29.—_Summary of the results of thirteen generations of minus
selection, based on Tables 16-28._

 +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
 |Generation.
 |      |No. of offspring.
 |      |      |Mean, parents.
 |      |      |      |Mean, offspring.
 |      |      |      |      |Standard deviation,
 |      |      |      |      |parents.
 |      |      |      |      |      |Standard deviation,
 |      |      |      |      |      |offspring.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |Correlation,
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |parents-offspring.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |Absolute regression of
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |offspring on parents.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |Advance of
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |parents.
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |     |Advance of
 |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |     |offspring.
 +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+-----+------+
 |   1  |    5 | 1.46 | 1.00 | .208 | .515 |      | .46 |     |      |
 |   2  |   13 | 1.41 | 1.07 | .342 | .493 |-.033 | .34 |-.05 |  .07 |
 |   3  |   19 | 1.56 | 1.18 | .196 | .484 | .206 | .38 | .15 |  .11 |
 |   4  |   32 | 1.69 | 1.28 | .190 | .460 | .020 | .41 | .13 |  .10 |
 |   5  |   70 | 1.73 | 1.41 | .233 | .500 | .184 | .32 | .04 |  .13 |
 |   6  | 1,25 | 1.86 | 1.56 | .185 | .488 | .164 | .30 | .13 |  .15 |
 |   7  | 1,68 | 2.01 | 1.73 | .132 | .352 | .143 | .28 | .15 |  .17 |
 |   8  | 1,72 | 2.05 | 1.80 | .107 | .283 | .094 | .25 | .04 |  .07 |
 |   9  | 1,59 | 2.11 | 1.92 | .184 | .285 | .059 | .19 | .06 |  .12 |
 |  10  | 1,45 | 2.18 | 2.01 | .255 | .242 | .158 | .17 | .07 |  .09 |
 |  11  |   98 | 2.30 | 2.15 | .229 | .349 | .081 | .15 | .12 |  .14 |
 |  12  | 1,03 | 2.44 | 2.23 | .310 | .372 | .406 | .07 | .14 |  .08 |
 |  13  |   57 | 2.50 | 2.39 | .177 | .317 | .235 | .11 | .06 |  .16 |
 |      +------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+-----+------+
 |Total.|11,704|      |      |      |      |      |     |     |      |
 +------+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----+-----+------+


TABLE 30.—_Mean grade and number of offspring produced by parents of
a particular grade in each generation of the minus selection series,
based on Tables 16-28. The grade of the parents is indicated at the head
of each column. In the body of the table is recorded the mean grade of
the offspring (in light-faced figures) and the number of offspring (in
=heavy-faced figures=)._

 +------+------------------------------------------------+----------+
 |Generation.                                            |          |
 |      |           Grade of parents; below,             |          |
 |      |          grade and number of their             |  Total   |
 |      |                  offspring.                    |  number  |
 |      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+-----+    of    |
 |      |  1¼ |  1⅜ |  1½ |  1⅝ |  1¾ |  1⅞ |  2   |  2⅛ |offspring.|
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+-----+----------+
 |  1   |1.34 | .85 |1.37 |     |     |1.05 |      |     |          |
 |      |  =8=| =31=|  =6=|     |     | =10=|      |     |     =55= |
 |  2   |1.17 |1.45 |1.11 |0.67 |1.09 |1.10 |      |     |          |
 |      | =17=|  =5=| =37=|  =3=| =27=| =12=|      |     |    =132= |
 |  3   |1.05 |1.04 |1.31 |1.22 |1.26 |1.96 |      |     |          |
 |      | =20=| =28=| =28=| =48=| =63=|  =3=|      |     |    =195= |
 |  4   |1.56 |1.16 |1.31 |1.36 |1.34 |1.18 | 1.36 |     |          |
 |      |  =4=| =29=| =59=| =40=| =93=| =95=|   =9=|     |    =329= |
 |  5   |     |1.50 |1.25 |1.35 |1.30 |1.64 | 1.52 |1.80 |          |
 |      |     | =51=| =53=| =54=|=262=|=143=| =109=|  =5=|    =701= |
 |  6   |     |     |1.34 |1.46 |1.49 |1.59 | 1.58 |1.52 |          |
 |      |     |     | =24=| =94=|=244=|=502=| =283=| =85=|  =1,252= |
 |  7   |     |     |     |1.55 |1.67 |1.65 | 1.72 |1.74 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |  =5=| =32=|=330=| =969=|=260=|  =1,680= |
 |  8   |     |     |     |     |     |1.84 | 1.81 |1.86 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     | =19=|=1170=|=377=|  =1,726= |
 |  9   |     |     |     |     |     |     | 1.90 |1.93 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     | =811=|=403=|  =1,591= |
 |  10  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 1.96 |2.00 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     | =478=|=474=|  =1,451= |
 |  11  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 2.08 |2.15 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |  =51=|=183=|    =984= |
 |  12  |     |     |     |     |     |     | 1.98 |2.14 |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |  =10=|=118=|  =1,037= |
 |  13  |     |     |     |     |     |     |      |     |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |      |     |    =571= |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |      |     +----------+
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |      |     | =11,704= |
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+------+-----+----------+

 +------+-----------------------------------------+----------+
 |Generation.                                     |          |
 |      |         Grade of parents; below,        |          |
 |      |        grade and number of their        |  Total   |
 |      |                offspring.               |  number  |
 |      +-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+    of    |
 |      |  2¼ |  2⅜ |  2½ |  2⅝ |  2¾ |  2⅞ |  3  |offspring.|
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+
 |  1   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     =55= |
 |  2   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    =132= |
 |  3   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    =195= |
 |  4   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    =329= |
 |  5   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    =701= |
 |  6   |     |     |1.82 |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |     |     | =11=|     |     |     |     |  =1,252= |
 |  7   |1.93 |1.62 |1.88 |2.28 |1.87 |     |     |          |
 |      | =41=|  =4=| =15=| =18=|  =6=|     |     |  =1,680= |
 |  8   |1.87 |1.87 |1.92 |1.67 |     |     |     |          |
 |      | =36=| =30=| =17=|  =6=|     |     |     |  =1,726= |
 |  9   |1.93 |1.91 |2.07 |     |     |     |     |          |
 |      |=148=|=175=| =53=|     |     |     |     |  =1,591= |
 |  10  |2.04 |2.05 |2.13 |2.15 |1.95 |2.18 |     |          |
 |      |=217=|=119=| =67=| =49=| =27=| =20=|     |  =1,451= |
 |  11  |2.13 |2.16 |2.21 |2.20 |2.26 |1.95 |     |          |
 |      |=318=|=268=| =81=| =52=| =26=|  =5=|     |    =984= |
 |  12  |2.15 |2.11 |2.24 |2.32 |2.45 |2.51 |2.65 |          |
 |      |=166=|=230=|=242=|=137=| =42=| =53=| =35=|  =1,037= |
 |  13  |2.22 |2.35 |2.40 |2.47 |2.55 |2.43 |2.50 |          |
 |      | =67=|=170=|=154=|=108=| =31=| =26=| =15=|    =571= |
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     +----------+
 |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | =11,704= |
 +------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+----------+


TABLE 31.—_Results of a first return selection from generation 6, minus
series._

 +--------+-----------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of offspring.    |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0| ¼| ½| ¾|-1|-1¼|-1½|-1¾|-2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ⅜     |  | 2| 1|  | 3|  4|  8|  8|  |   26  | 1.08 |    -.60   |
 |  ⅝     | 2| 2| 3| 4|10| 14| 17| 20| 4|   76  | 1.33 |    -.71   |
 |  ¾     |  |  |  | 1| 1|   |  2|  1|  |    5  | 1.30 |    -.65   |
 |  ⅞     |  |  | 2|  | 2|   |  1|  4| 2|   11  | 1.41 |    -.63   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |     .60| 2| 4| 6| 5|16| 18| 28| 33| 6|  118  | 1.28 |    -.68   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 32.—_Results of a second return selection from generation 6, minus
series._

 +--------+-------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |Grade of offspring.|       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+---+---+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0| ½| ¾|-1|-1¼|-1½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ½     | 1| 3| 4| 5| 2 | 4 |   19  |  .95 |    -.45   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 33.—_Results of a third return selection from generation 6, minus
series._

 +--------+-----------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of offspring.    |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0| ¼| ½| ¾|-1|-1¼|-1½|-1¾|-2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |   ¼    |  | 5| 2| 2| 3|   |  1|   |  |   13  |  .63 |    -.38   |
 |   ⅜    | 2| 2| 3| 5| 4|   |  2|  3|  |   21  |  .86 |    -.49   |
 | -1⅛    |  |  |  |  | 1|  2|  3|  4| 3|   13  | 1.61 |    -.49   |
 | -1¼    |  |  | 1| 2| 4|  9|  8|  5| 2|   31  | 1.35 |    -.10   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |     .83| 2| 7| 6| 9|12| 11| 14| 12| 5|   78  | 1.14 |    -.31   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 34.—_Results of a fourth return selection from generation 6, minus
series._

 +--------+-----------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of offspring.    |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0| ¼| ½| ¾|-1|-1¼|-1½|-1¾|-2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ¼     | 1|  | 2| 1| 1|  4|  2|  3| 2|   16  | 1.34 |   -1.09   |
 |  ½     |  | 1| 1| 1| 2|   |   |   |  |    5  |  .70 |    -.20   |
 |  ⅝     |  |  | 1| 1|  |  1|   |   |  |    3  |  .83 |    -.21   |
 |  ¾     | 1| 1|  | 1|  |  2|  1|   |  |    6  |  .83 |    -.08   |
 |  ⅞     | 1|  | 2|  | 2|  2|  2|   | 1|   10  | 1.17 |    -.30   |
 | -1     |  |  |  |  | 2|  1|  3|  3| 1|   10  | 1.42 |    -.42   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |     .63| 3| 2| 6| 4| 7| 10|  8|  6| 4|   50  | 1.17 |    -.54   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 35.—_Results of a fifth return selection from generation 6, minus
series._

 +--------+-------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |Grade of offspring.|       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+---+---+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| 0| ¼| ½| ¾|-1¼|-1½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ¼     |  |  |  | 2|  2|   |    4  | 1.00 |    -.75   |
 |  ¾     | 1|  |  |  |   |  3|    4  | 1.12 |    -.37   |
 |  ⅞     | 2| 2| 1|  |   |   |    5  |  .25 |    +.62   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |   |   |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |   |   |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |   |   |       |      |           |
 |     .65| 3| 2| 1| 2|  2|  3|   13  |  .75 |    -.10   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+---+---+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 36.—_Results of a sixth return selection from generation 6, minus
series._

 +--------+------------------------------------------+--------------------+
 | Grade  |           Grade of offspring.            |Totals.             |
 |   of   +---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+      Means.        |
 |parents.|+1¼|+1|+¾|+½|+¼| 0| ¼| ½| ¾|-1|-1¼|-1½|-1¾|         Regression.|
 +--------+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+-----+------+-------+
 |  ⅛     |  1|  | 1|  |  | 3| 2| 1|  | 2| 2 |   |   |  12 |  .29 |  -.17 |
 |  ¼     |   |  |  | 2| 1| 1| 4|  | 1| 4|   |   |   |  13 |  .35 |  -.10 |
 |  ⅜     |   |  |  |  |  |  | 1|  | 2| 1|   |  1|  1|   6 |  .87 |  -.50 |
 |  ½     |   | 1|  |  |  |  |  | 1| 2| 1|   |   |   |   5 |  .25 |  +.25 |
 +--------+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+-----+------+-------+
 |Totals  |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |     |      |       |
 | or     |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |     |      |       |
 |means,  |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |     |      |       |
 |     .26|  1| 1| 1| 2| 1| 4| 7| 2| 5| 8|  2|  1|  1|  36 |  .39 |  -.13 |
 +--------+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+-----+------+-------+


TABLE 37.—_Results of a return selection from generation 7, minus series._

 +--------+-----------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |   Grade of offspring. |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+---+---+---+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| ½| ¾|-1|-1¼|-1½|-1¾|-2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ¾     |  | 1| 3|  3|  7|  8| 3|   25  |      |           |
 |  ⅞     | 2| 2| 2|   |   |  2|  |    8  |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |     .78| 2| 3| 5| 3 |  7| 10| 3|   33  | 1.15 |    -.37   |
 +--------+--+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 38.—_Results of a return selection from generation 8, minus series._

 +--------+--------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  | Grade of offspring.|       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+---+---+---+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| ¾|-1|-1¼|-1½|-1¾|-2|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ½     |  | 1|   |  3|  6| 3|   13  | 1.69 |   -1.19   |
 |  ⅝     |  | 1|   |   |  9| 3|   13  | 1.21 |   - .59   |
 |  ⅞     |  |  |   |   |   | 2|    2  | 2.00 |   - .13   |
 | -1     | 1|  | 2 |  4|  4| 2|   13  | 1.56 |   - .56   |
 +--------+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |   |   |   |  |       |      |           |
 |     .72| 1| 2|  2|  7| 19|10|   41  | 1.51 |   - .79   |
 +--------+--+--+---+---+---+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 39.—_Results of a return selection from generation 11, minus
series._

 +--------+-------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |Grade of offspring.|       |      |           |
 |   of   +---+---+---+---+---+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|  ¼|-1¾| -2|-2¼|-2½|       |      |           |
 +--------+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+-----------+
 | -1⅝    |  1|  3|  7|  3|  2|   16  | 1.95 |    -.33   |
 +--------+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 40.—_Results of a return selection from generation 6, plus series._

 +--------+--------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |    Grade of offspring.   |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|+½|+¾|+2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2     | 1| 1| 3| 3| 2| 2| 3| 1| 1|   17  | 2.36 |    -.36   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 41.—_Results of a return selection from generation 11, plus series._

 +--------+--------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |    Grade of offspring.   |       |      |           |
 |   of   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|3¾| 4|4¼|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2⅝    | 2| 3| 2| 5| 5| 1| 1|  |  |   22  |      |           |
 |  2¾    |  |  | 2| 4| 1| 8| 2|  |  |   17  |      |           |
 |  3     |  |  |  |  |  |  | 4| 4| 1|    9  |      |           |
 |  3¼    |  |  |  | 1|  |  | 3| 1|  |    5  |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.79| 2| 3| 4|10| 6|12|10| 5| 1|   53  | 3.32 |    -.53   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 42.—_Classification of the extracted hooded individuals obtained in
the second generation from a cross between hooded and wild rats._

 +----------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
 |Grade of hooded |      Grade of extracted hooded grandchildren.       |
 |grandparents.   |                                                     |
 |                +--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |                |-2|-1¾|-1½|-1¼|-1|-¾|-½|-¼| 0|+¼| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|
 +----------------+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |♀ -1⅞,          |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  gen. 2½,      |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  minus series  |  |   | 2 |   | 4| 6| 5| 6|13| 2| 1| 3| 4| 5| 3| 4| 2|
 |♀♀ -2,          |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  gen. 6,       |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  minus series  |  | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1| 2| 6| 6| 7| 2| 3| 6| 4| 2| 4| 1|  |
 |♀♀ -2           |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  and -2¼,      |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  gen. 10,      |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  minus series  | 1| 3 | 3 | 1 |10| 3| 9| 8|14|  | 4| 7| 8| 1| 4| 3| 5|
 |♀♀ +3,          |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  gen. 3,       |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  plus series   |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 5|
 |♀♀ +3¼,         |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  gen. 5        |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  and +3½, gen. |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  6, plus series|  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 2| 1|
 |♀ +4¼,          |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  gen. 10,      |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  plus series   |  |   |   |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1|
 +----------------+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

 +----------------+--------------------+----------------------------------+
 |                |                    |Total.                            |
 |                |      Grade of      |  |Mean.                          |
 |                |     extracted      |  |     |Mean, uncrossed race.    |
 |Grade of hooded |       hooded       |  |     |     |Standard deviation.|
 |grandparents.   |   grandchildren.   |  |     |     |     |Standard     |
 |                |                    |  |     |     |     |  deviation, |
 |                +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  |     |     |     |  uncrossed  |
 |                |2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|3¾|  |     |     |     |  race.      |
 +----------------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+-----+-----+-------------+
 |♀ -1⅞,          |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  gen. 2½,      |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  minus series  | 1|  |  |  |  | 1|  |62|+ .31|-1.20|  .98|        .49  |
 |♀♀ -2,          |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  gen. 6,       |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  minus series  |  |  |1 |  |  |  |  |48|+ .25|-1.59|  .97|        .44  |
 |♀♀ -2           |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  and -2¼,      |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  gen. 10,      |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  minus series  | 2| 4| 1|  |  |  |  |91|+ .24|-2.05| 1.18|        .24  |
 |♀♀ +3,          |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  gen. 3,       |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  plus series   | 3| 2| 3| 4| 2| 1|  |21|+2.56|+2.60|  .50|        .53  |
 |♀♀ +3¼,         |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  gen. 5        |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  and +3½, gen. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  6, plus series| 1| 1| 6| 9| 8| 8| 1|38|+2.97|+3.14|  .52|        .49  |
 |♀ +4¼,          |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  gen. 10,      |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |     |     |             |
 |  plus series   |  |  | 3| 4| 2| 3| 3|16|+3.15|+3.84|  .28|        .36  |
 +----------------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+-----+-----+-------------+


TABLE 43.—_Classification of the extracted hooded individuals obtained in
the second generation from a cross between hooded and Irish rats._

 +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
 |Grade of hooded|      Grade of extracted hooded grandchildren.       |
 |grandparents.  |                                                     |
 |               +--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |               |-2|-1¾|-1½|-1¼|-1|-¾|-½|-¼| 0|+¼|+½|+¾|+1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|
 +---------------+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |-1½, gen. 3½   | 1| 5 | 3 | 6 |12|26| 9| 9|10| 1| 3| 2| 2| 1|  |  |  |
 |-1⅞, gen. 4    |  | 6 | 3 | 4 | 5| 9|14| 8| 1|  | 1| 1| 1|  |  |  |  |
 |+2, gen. 7½    | 6| 6 |12 |11 | 8| 3| 4| 4| 6| 1| 3|  |  |  |  | 1| 1|
 |+2¼, gen. 2    |  |   |   |   | 3| 4| 5| 4|16| 7|16|22|25|29|24|13|33|
 |+3, gen. 3     |  |   |   |   | 2|  |  |  | 1| 1| 3| 3| 4| 2| 2| 1| 2|
 +---------------+--+---+---+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

 +---------------+-----------------+--------------------------------------+
 |               |                 |Total.                                |
 |               |   Grade of      |   |Mean.                             |
 |               |  extracted      |   |     |Mean, same grade and        |
 |               |   hooded        |   |     | generation, uncrossed race.|
 |Grade of hooded| grandchildren.  |   |     |     |Standard deviation.   |
 |grandparents.  |                 |   |     |     |     |Standard        |
 |               |                 |   |     |     |     |  deviation,    |
 |               +--+--+--+--+--+--+   |     |     |     |  uncrossed     |
 |               | 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|   |     |     |     |  race.         |
 +---------------+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+-----+-----+-----+----------------+
 |-1½, gen. 3½   |  |  |  |  |  |  | 90|- .62|-1.31|  .61|      .48       |
 |-1⅞, gen. 4    |  |  |  |  |  |  | 53|- .73|-1.18|  .60|      .46       |
 |+2, gen. 7½    | 1|  |  |  |  |  | 66|- .94|-1.75|  .84|      .35       |
 |+2¼, gen. 2    |33|14| 8| 8| 6| 3|239|+1.27|+1.80|  .90|      .75       |
 |+3, gen. 3     | 2| 1| 1|  |  |  | 23|+ .95|+2.50|  .87|      .53       |
 +---------------+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+-----+-----+-----+----------------+


TABLE 44.—_F₃ generation produced by extracted hooded rats (F₂
generation) derived from a cross of a hooded rat of the minus series with
a wild rat. (See Table 42.)_

 +--------+-----------------------------------------------------+
 | Grade  |             Grade of (F₃) offspring.                |
 | of (F₂)+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |parents.|-1|-¾|-½|-¼| 0|+½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |  ¾     | 2| 1| 4| 3| 4| 1| 2| 1|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1|  |
 |  2½    |  |  |  |  | 1| 1| 1| 3| 2| 2| 1| 5| 3| 6| 4| 3| 1| 1|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |       |      |           |
 | of (F₂)+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|       |      |           |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 |  ¾     |  19   | + .04|     .71   |
 |  2½    |  34   | +2.06|     .44   |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 45.—_F₄ generation from minus series crossed with wild._

 +--------+-----------------------------------------------+
 | Grade  |          Grade of (F₄) offspring.             |
 | of (F₃)+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |parents.|-¼| 0|+¼|+½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |  2¼    | 2| 1|  | 1| 3| 6| 6| 9|16|25|14|10| 2| 1|  |  |
 |  2⅜    |  | 2| 1| 1| 1| 6| 3| 8| 3| 9|  | 4| 4| 1| 1|  |
 |  2⅞    | 1|  |  | 2|  | 1| 1| 1| 1| 1|  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |  3     |  |  |  | 1| 1| 3|  | 3| 5| 9| 5| 7| 3| 1|  | 1|
 |  3⅛    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1| 3| 1| 2| 5| 4|  | 1|
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |    2.52| 3| 3| 1| 5| 5|16|10|22|26|47|20|23|14| 7| 1| 2|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |       |      |           |
 | of (F₃)|Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|       |      |           |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2¼    |   96  | 1.78 |     .47   |
 |  2⅜    |   44  | 1.67 |     .70   |
 |  2⅞    |    8  |  .91 |    1.96   |
 |  3     |   39  | 2.02 |     .98   |
 |  3⅛    |   18  | 2.82 |     .30   |
 |        +-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |       |      |           |
 | or     |       |      |           |
 |means,  |       |      |           |
 |    2.52|  205  | 1.86 |     .66   |
 +--------+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 46.—_F₅ generation from minus series crossed with wild._

 +--------+--------------------------------------+------------------------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of (F₅) offspring.        |Totals.                 |
 | of (F₄)+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+      Means.            |
 |parents.| 0|+½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|             Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+-----------+
 |  2     | 1|  | 1| 3| 3| 2|12|15|10| 2| 3| 1|  |  53 |      |           |
 |  2⅛    |  |  |  | 1|  | 1| 1| 4| 1|  | 4|  | 1|  13 |      |           |
 |  2¼    |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 3| 4| 1| 2| 2|  |  |  13 |      |           |
 |  2⅜    |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 2| 3| 2| 4| 2|  |  14 |      |           |
 |  2⅝    |1 | 1| 2| 1|  | 2|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   7 |      |           |
 |  2⅞    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 2| 1| 1| 1|  |  |   5 |      |           |
 |  3     |  |  |  | 1|  |  |  | 1|  | 1| 7| 4|  |  14 |      |           |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |           |
 |    2.27| 2| 1| 3| 6| 3| 6|17|28|16| 8|21| 7| 1| 119 | 2.06 |     .21   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+-----------+


TABLE 47.—_F₆ generation from minus series crossed with wild._

 +--------+-----------------------------------------+---------------------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of (F₆) offspring.           |Totals.              |
 | of (F₅)+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+      Means.         |
 |parents.|+½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|3¾|          Regression.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+--------+
 |  2⅜    |  | 1| 1| 1| 4| 8|13| 4| 4| 7| 3| 2|  |  |  48 | 2.14 |   .23  |
 |  2½    |  |  |  | 3| 2| 2| 4| 3| 3| 5| 4|  |  |  |  26 | 2.24 |   .26  |
 |  2⅝    | 1|  | 1| 1| 2| 1| 2| 3|  | 3| 4| 1| 1|  |  20 | 2.26 |   .36  |
 |  2¾    | 1|  |  | 1| 4| 2| 5|  | 3| 8| 2| 5|  |  |  31 | 2.35 |   .40  |
 |  2⅞    |  |  |  |  | 1|  | 4| 1| 9| 7|11| 5| 2|  |  40 | 2.74 |   .13  |
 |  3⅛    |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 4| 2| 4| 7| 6| 2| 1| 2|  29 | 2.73 |   .39  |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+--------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |        |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |        |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |     |      |        |
 |    2.69| 2| 1| 2| 6|13|14|32|13|23|37|30|15|4 | 2| 194 | 2.41 |   .28  |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-----+------+--------+


TABLE 48.—_F₇ generation from minus series crossed with wild._

 +--------+-----------------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  |      Grade of (F₇) offspring.     |       |      |           |
 | of (F₆)+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.| ¾| 1|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|3¾|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2⅝    |  |  | 4| 4|12| 2| 9| 9|12| 1|  |  |   53  | 2.41 |     .21   |
 |  2¾    | 3| 1|  | 2| 6| 5| 4| 4| 3|  |  |  |   28  | 2.14 |     .61   |
 |  2⅞    |  |  | 1| 1| 1| 2| 3| 1|  | 1|  |  |   10  | 2.32 |     .55   |
 |  3     |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 3| 1| 3| 1| 3|  |   12  | 2.93 |     .07   |
 |  3⅛    |  | 1| 3| 2| 3| 1| 4| 3| 5| 2| 2| 1|   27  | 2.59 |     .53   |
 |  3¼    |  |  |  |  | 3| 1| 3| 3| 1| 3|  |  |   14  | 2.63 |     .62   |
 |  3⅜    |  |  |  |  | 1|  | 2| 2| 2| 2| 1|  |   10  | 2.85 |     .52   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    2.80| 3| 2| 8| 9|26|12|28|23|26|10| 6| 1|  154  | 2.46 |     .34   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 49.—_F₈ generation from minus series crossed with wild._

 +--------+--------------------------+-------+------+-----------+
 | Grade  | Grade of (F₈) offspring. |       |      |           |
 | of (F₇)+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Regression.|
 |parents.|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|2¾| 3|3¼|3½|3¾|       |      |           |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |  2¾    |  |  |  | 1|  | 1|  |  |  |   2   | 2.75 |       0   |
 |  3     | 1| 1| 3| 5| 8|  | 5|  | 1|  24   | 2.74 |     .01   |
 |  3⅛    | 1| 2| 3| 3| 5| 3| 1| 1|  |  19   | 2.60 |     .52   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |means,  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |           |
 |    3.08| 2| 3| 6| 9|13| 4| 6| 1| 1|   45  | 2.67 |     .41   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+-----------+


TABLE 50.—_Results of crossing the selected plus with the selected minus
series._

 +----------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
 | Grade          |                  Grade of offspring.                  |
 |   of           +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
 |parents.        | -2|-1¾|-1½|-1¼| -1|  ¾|  ½|  ¼|  0| +¼| +½| +¾| +1|+1¼|
 +----------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
 |Series 1, F₁    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  generation;   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  ♀♀ -2,        |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  gen. 6;       |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  ♂  ♂ +3½      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  or 3¾, gen. 5 |   |  2|   |  2|  1|  8| 10| 13| 25|  2|  8| 11|  6|  3|
 |                |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |Series 1, F₂    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  generation, -1|   |  1|  1|   |  4|   |  1|  1|  3|  1|  1|   |   |   |
 |½               |   |   |  1|  2|  1|  3|  3|  2|  1|   |  1|   |   |  1|
 |0               |   |   |  1|   |  1|  4|  2|  4|  6|  1|  1|  1|  3|  1|
 |+⅛              |   |  1|  2|  1|  3|  3|  1|   |  5|  1|  4|  3|  2|   |
 |+¼              |   |  2|  1|  2|  7|  3|  1|  2|  4|  1|  2|  2|  6|  1|
 |+½              |   |   |   |  1|  1|  1|  4|  2|  4|   |  1|  1|  1|   |
 |+¾              |   |   |  1|   |   |  2|  3|  1|  2|  1|   |  3|  2|  1|
 |+1              |   |   |  1|   |   |  7|  3|  6| 13|  4|  8|  5|  5|  4|
 |+1⅛             |   |   |   |   |   |  1|  1|  1|  2|   |  1|  3|   |   |
 |+1¼             |  1|   |  1|  1|  5|   |  7|  1|  8|  1|  5|  6|  4|  2|
 |+1½             |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |  1|   |   |   |   |   |
 |                +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
 |Series 1, totals|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  or means,     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  F₂ generation |  1|  4|  9|  7| 22| 24| 26| 20| 49| 10| 24| 24| 23| 10|
 |                |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |Series 2, F₁    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  generation;   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  ♀ ♀ +3¾, gen. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  10; ♂ -3¼,    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  gen. 10       |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |  1|   |  1|  1|  2|  4|  2|
 |                |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |Series 2, F₂    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  generation, +½|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |  1|   |  1|   |
 |+⅝              |   |   |   |   |   |   |  2|  1|  3|  3|  3|   |   |   |
 |+1              |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |  2|   |   |  2|  1|   |
 |+1⅛             |   |   |   |   |   |   |  1|  1|  2|  1|  3|  4|  2|  1|
 |+1¼             |   |   |   |   |  2|   |  1|  1|  1|  4|  5|  3|  2|  4|
 |                +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
 |Series 2, totals|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  or means,     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
 |  F₂ generation |   |   |   |   |  2|   |  4|  3|  8|  8| 12|  9|  6|  5|
 +----------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

 +----------------+---------------------------+-------+------+----------+
 | Grade          |      Grade of offspring.  |       |      |          |
 |   of           +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |parents.        |+1½|+1¾| +2|+2¼|+2½|+2¾|+3½|       |      |deviation.|
 +----------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Series 1, F₁    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  generation;   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  ♀♀ -2,        |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  gen. 6;       |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  ♂  ♂ +3½      |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  or 3¾, gen. 5 |  1|   |   |   |   |  1|   |   93  |+ .06 |    .71   |
 |                |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |Series 1, F₂    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  generation, -1|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   13  |- .57 |    .66   |
 |½               |  1|   |   |   |   |   |   |   16  |- .37 |    .80   |
 |0               |  2|  1|  1|   |   |   |   |   29  |+ .17 |    .95   |
 |+⅛              |  3|  1|   |   |   |   |   |   30  |+ .03 |    .97   |
 |+¼              |  3|  3|  1|   |   |   |   |   41  |+ .10 |   1.08   |
 |+½              |   |  1|   |   |  1|   |   |   18  |+ .06 |    .91   |
 |+¾              |  1|   |  1|   |   |   |   |   18  |+ .25 |    .90   |
 |+1              |  4|  3|  2|  2|  6|   |   |   73  |+ .60 |    .98   |
 |+1⅛             |  2|  1|  1|   |   |   |   |   13  |+ .61 |    .83   |
 |+1¼             |  4|  3|  1|  3|   |   |   |   53  |+ .38 |   1.02   |
 |+1½             |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |    1  |  0   |          |
 |                +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Series 1, totals|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  or means,     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  F₂ generation | 20| 13|  7|  5|  7|   |   |  305  |+ .24 |   1.01   |
 |                |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |Series 2, F₁    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  generation;   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  ♀ ♀ +3¾, gen. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  10; ♂ -3¼,    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  gen. 10       |  1|  1|   |  1|   |   |   |   14  |+1.00 |    .60   |
 |                |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |Series 2, F₂    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  generation, +½|   |   |   |   |  1|   |   |    3  |+1.31 |          |
 |+⅝              |  1|   |  1|  1|   |  1|   |   16  | +.40 |    .96   |
 |+1              |  1|  1|   |   |   |   |   |    7  | +.82 |          |
 |+1⅛             |   |  4|   |  1|   |  1|  1|   22  |+1.03 |    .97   |
 |+1¼             |  1|   |  1|   |   |   |   |   25  |+ .56 |    .70   |
 |                +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Series 2, totals|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  or means,     |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  F₂ generation |  3|  5|  2|  2|  1|  2|  1|   73  | +.72 |    .87   |
 +----------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+


TABLE 51.—_F₁ offspring of the original “mutant” male, 4763, +5½, mated
with females of the plus series, and with the “mutant” female, 5153, +5¾._

 +-----------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
 |                 |                Grade of offspring.                  |
 |                 +-----------------------------------------------------+
 | Grade of        |                    Lower group.                     |
 |  mother.        +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |                 | +3| 3¼| 3½| 3¾|  4| 4¼| 4½|Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |                 |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |deviation.|
 +-----------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 | +3¾             | 1 |   | 4 | 11| 1 | 1 |   |   18  | 3.69 |          |
 | 3⅞              |   |   | 3 | 7 | 3 |   |   |   13  | 3.75 |          |
 | 4               |   | 1 | 4 | 9 | 4 | 1 | 1 |   20  | 3.78 |          |
 | 4⅛              |   |   |   | 3 | 1 | 1 |   |    5  | 3.90 |          |
 | 4½              |   |   | 1 | 1 |   |   |   |    2  | 3.62 |          |
 |                 +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals or means  | 1 | 1 | 12| 31| 9 | 3 | 1 |   58  | 3.73 |    .24   |
 |                 +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Mutant ♀         |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  5153, +5¾      |   |   |   | 3 | 3 |   |   |    6  | 3.87 |          |
 +-----------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+

 +-----------------+---------------------------------------------+
 |                 |            Grade of offspring.              |
 |                 +---------------------------------------------+
 | Grade of        |                 Upper group.                |
 |  mother.        +---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |                 |  5| 5¼| 5½| 5¾|  6|Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |                 |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |deviation.|
 +-----------------+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 | +3¾             | 1 | 3 | 9 | 4 | 1 |   18  | 5.51 |          |
 | 3⅞              | 1 | 4 | 5 | 3 |   |   13  | 5.44 |          |
 | 4               | 2 | 7 | 5 | 4 |   |   18  | 5.40 |          |
 | 4⅛              |   | 2 | 4 | 1 |   |    7  | 5.46 |          |
 | 4½              |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |                 +---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals or means  | 4 | 16| 23| 12| 1 |   56  | 5.45 |    .23   |
 |                 +---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Mutant ♀         |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |  5153, +5¾      |   |   |  6|  4|   |   10  | 5.60 |          |
 +-----------------+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+


TABLE 52.—_F₁ offspring of the original mutant male, 4763, +5½, mated
with females of the minus series._

 +-------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
 |Grade  |               Grade of offspring, lower group.                 |
 | of    +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+------+----------+
 |mother.|-1| ¾| ½| ¼| 0|+¼|+½|+¾|+1|+1¼|+1½|+1¾|+2¼|Totals.   |Standard  |
 |       |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |Means.|deviation.|
 +-------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+------+----------+
 | -2    | 1| 1| 1|  | 3| 1| 2| 1|  |   | 1 | 1 | 1 | 13| +.40 |          |
 | -2¼   | 1|  |  | 1| 1| 2|  | 2| 2| 3 | 1 | 1 |   | 14| +.70 |          |
 | -2½   |  |  |  |  | 2|  | 1| 1|  |   |   |   |   |  4| +.31 |          |
 | -2¾   |  |  |  | 1| 1|  | 2|  |  |   |   |   |   |  4| +.18 |          |
 |       +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+------+----------+
 |Totals |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |      |          |
 | or    |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |   |   |   |   |      |          |
 |means  | 2| 1| 1| 2| 7| 3| 5| 4| 2| 3 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 35| +.49 |    .77   |
 +-------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+---+---+---+---+------+----------+

 +-------+---------------------------------------------+
 |Grade  |      Grade of offspring, upper group.       |
 | of    +---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |mother.| +4|+4¼|+4½|+4¾| +5|Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |       |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |deviation.|
 +-------+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 | -2    | 2 | 5 |   | 3 | 2 |   12  | 4.46 |          |
 | -2¼   |   | 2 | 4 | 3 |   |    9  | 4.53 |          |
 | -2½   | 2 | 3 | 1 |   |   |    6  | 4.21 |          |
 | -2¾   | 2 | 1 | 1 |   |   |    4  | 4.19 |          |
 |       +---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 | or    |   |   |   |   |   |       |      |          |
 |means  | 6 |11 | 6 | 6 | 2 |   31  | 4.43 |    .31   |
 +-------+---+---+---+---+---+-------+------+----------+


TABLE 53.—_Classification of the descendants through three generations of
the two original mutants, ♂ 4763, +5½, and ♀ 5153, +5¾. The parents are
in every case of grade 5½ or 5¾._

 +-----------+-------------------------------------+
 |           |         Grade of offspring.         |
 |           +-------------------------------------+
 |Generation.|            Lower group.             |
 |           +--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |           |3¼|3½|3¾| 4|Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |           |  |  |  |  |       |      |deviation.|
 +-----------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |F₁         |  |  | 3| 3|     6 | 3.87 |          |
 |F₂         | 1| 1|  |  |     2 | 3.37 |          |
 |F₃         |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 +-----------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals     |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 | or means  | 1| 1| 3| 3|     8 | 3.75 |      .25 |
 +-----------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+

 +-----------+-------------------------------------+
 |           |         Grade of offspring.         |
 |           +-------------------------------------+
 |Generation.|           Upper group.              |
 |           +--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |           | 5|5¼|5½|5¾|Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |           |  |  |  |  |       |      |deviation.|
 +-----------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |F₁         |  |  | 6| 4|    10 | 5.60 |          |
 |F₂         | 2| 3|15|10|    30 | 5.52 |          |
 |F₃         |  | 1| 7| 3|    11 | 5.55 |          |
 +-----------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals     |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 | or means  | 2| 4|28|17|    51 | 5.54 |      .19 |
 +-----------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+


TABLE 54.—_F₂ descendants of the original mutant male, 4763, +5½, mated
with females of the plus series. (Compare Table 51.)_

 +-----------------+----------------------------------------------+
 |                 |         Grade of (F₂) offspring.             |
 |                 +----------------------------------------------+
 |Grade of (F₁)    |            Lower group.                      |
 |parents.         +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |                 | 3|3¼|3½|3¾| 4|4¼|4½|Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |                 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |deviation.|
 +-----------------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Lower group 3⅝   | 2| 1|10| 8| 1|  |  |    22 | 3.56 |          |
 |  parents   3¾   |  | 1| 2| 2| 7| 2| 1|    15 | 3.92 |          |
 |            3⅞   |  | 1| 2| 6| 8| 4| 1|    22 | 3.92 |          |
 |                 +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals or means  | 2| 3|14|16|16| 6| 2|    59 | 3.78 |      .33 |
 |                 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |Upper group 5¼   |  |  | 1|  |  |  |  |     1 | 3.50 |          |
 |  parents   5⅜   |  | 1| 1| 3| 1| 4|  |    10 | 3.90 |          |
 |            5⅝   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |                 +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals or means  |  | 1| 2| 3| 1| 4|  |     11| 3.86 |      .35 |
 +-----------------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+

 +-----------------+-------------------------------------+
 |                 |      Grade of (F₂) offspring.       |
 |                 +-------------------------------------+
 |Grade of (F₁)    |          Upper group.               |
 |parents.         +--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |                 | 5|5¼|5½|5¾|Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |                 |  |  |  |  |       |      |deviation.|
 +-----------------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Lower group 3⅝   |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |  parents   3¾   |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |            3⅞   |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |                 +  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |Totals or means  |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |                 |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |Upper group 5¼   |  |  | 2|  |     2 | 5.50 |          |
 |  parents   5⅜   | 2| 6|49|13|    70 | 5.51 |          |
 |            5⅝   |  | 2| 5|  |     7 | 5.43 |          |
 |                 +--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals or means  | 2| 8|56|13|    79 | 5.50 |     .15  |
 +-----------------+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+


TABLE 55.—_F₂ descendants of the original mutant male, 4763, +5½, mated
with females of the minus series. (Compare Table 52.)_

 +--------+---------------------------+
 |        | Grade of (F₂) offspring,  |
 |Grade   |    lower group parents.   |
 | of F₁  +--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |parents.|-2|-1¾|-1| ¾| ½| ¼| 0|+¼|+½|
 +--------+--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |  ¾     |  |   |  | 1| 1|  |  |  |  |
 |  ⅝     | 1|   | 1|  | 3|  |  |  |  |
 |  ⅛     | 1|   | 1|  | 1|  | 1|  | 1|
 |  0     |  |  1| 3| 3| 3|  | 1|  | 4|
 | +¼     |  |   |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1|
 | +½     | 1|   |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1|
 | +1     | 1|   | 1|  | 1| 1|  | 1| 2|
 |        +--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |Totals  |  |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 | or     |  |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |means   | 4|  1| 6| 4| 9| 1| 2| 2| 9|
 +--------+--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

 +--------+--------------------------+-------+------+----------+
 |        | Grade of (F₂) offspring, |       |      |          |
 |Grade   |    lower group parents.  |       |      |          |
 | of F₁  +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+Totals.|Means.|Standard  |
 |parents.|+¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|2¼|2½|3¼|       |      |deviation.|
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |  ¾     |  |  |  | 1|  |  |  |  |  |    3  |  .58 |          |
 |  ⅝     |  | 1| 1|  | 1| 2|  | 1|  |   11  |  .57 |          |
 |  ⅛     |  |  | 2| 1|  |  |  |  | 1|    9  |  .80 |          |
 |  0     |  |  |  | 1| 1| 3|  | 2|  |   22  |  .72 |          |
 | +¼     |  |  | 1|  |  |  |  |  |  |    3  | 1.00 |          |
 | +½     | 1|  |  | 1|  |  |  |  |  |    4  | -.12 |          |
 | +1     | 1|  |  |  |  |  | 1|  |  |    9  |  .19 |          |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |       |      |          |
 |means   | 2| 1| 4| 4| 2| 5| 1| 3| 1|   61  |  .58 |   1.17   |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+-------+------+----------+

 +--------+---------------------------------------------+
 |Grade   |Grade of (F₂) offspring, upper group parents.|
 | of F₁  +--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |parents.|-2|-1¾|-1| ¾| ½| ¼| 0|+¼| ½| ¾| 1|1¼|1½|1¾| 2|
 +--------+--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 | 4⅛     |  |   |  |  |  |  | 1|  |  | 2|  |  |  |  |  |
 | 4¼     |  |  1|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 | 4⅜     |  |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1| 1|
 | 4½     |  |   |  |  | 1|  |  |  |  | 2| 2|  |  |  | 1|
 | 4⅝     |  |   |  |  |  |  | 1|  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1|
 |        +--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
 |Totals  |  |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 | or     |  |   |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
 |means   |  |  1|  |  | 1|  | 2|  |  | 4| 2|  |  | 1| 3|
 +--------+--+---+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

 +--------+------------------------+---------+---------+----------+
 |        |Grade of (F₂) offspring,| Totals. |  Means. |Standard  |
 |Grade   | upper group parents.   |         |         |deviation.|
 | of F₁  +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+----+----+----+----+----+-----+
 |parents.|3½| 4|4¼|4½|4¾| 5|5¼| 5½|L[1]|U[2]|L[1]|U[2]|L[1]|U[2] |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+----+----+----+----+----+-----+
 | 4⅛     |  |  | 1| 1| 1|  | 1|  1|  3 |  5 |    |4.85|    |     |
 | 4¼     |  |  | 1| 6| 1| 1| 1|   |  1 | 10 |    |4.62|    |     |
 | 4⅜     |  |  | 2|  | 1| 1|  |   |  2 |  4 |    |4.56|    |     |
 | 4½     | 1| 2| 4|10| 6| 8| 4|  6|  6 | 41 |    |4.78|    |     |
 | 4⅝     |  |  | 1| 1| 1| 2| 3|   |  2 |  8 |    |4.91|    |     |
 |        +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+----+----+----+----+----+-----+
 |Totals  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |    |    |    |    |    |     |
 | or     |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   |    |    |    |    |    |     |
 |means   | 1| 2| 9|18|10|12| 9|  7| 14 | 68 |+.75|4.77|1.03| .44 |
 +--------+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+---+----+----+----+----+----+-----+

[1] Lower group offspring, -1¾ to +2 inclusive.

[2] Upper group offspring, +3½ to +5½ inclusive.




EXPLANATION OF PLATES.


PLATE 1.

Top row, a set of arbitrary grades used in the classification of the rats
studied.

Middle and bottom rows, skins of rats graded as indicated by the numerals
above each skin. The animals graded, +4, +4¼ and +4¾, being entirely dark
above, are shown in ventral view.

[Illustration: PLATE 1]


PLATE 2.

♂ 8000, a wild gray rat caught in Cambridge, Mass., October, 1908.

♀ 6176, a black hooded rat of grade -1¾ which was mated with ♂ 8000.

♂ 8021 and ♂ 8018, _F_₁ offspring of the pair just described, ♂ 8000 and
♀ 6176. ♂ 8021 is of grade +4¾, with considerable white below. Notice
also his white legs and compare with those of his father. ♂ 8018 is of
grade +5½. Notice white areas on belly and front legs.

8075-8078, four F₂ progeny (grandchildren) of ♂ 8000 and ♀ 6176. 8075
is black hooded, grade ¾; 8076 is gray, +4¼; 8077 is gray, +4; 8078 is
black, +5½.

[Illustration: PLATE 2]


PLATE 3.

♂ 103, an evenly marked rat of grade +3. A female rat of this same
grade was mated with ♂ 8000 (the wild gray male). Two litters of _F_₂
grandchildren are shown in 8062-8067, and 8070-8074.

8062 is black hooded, +2; 8064 is gray hooded, +2; 8065 is black, +5;
8066 is gray, +5¼; 8067 is gray, +4½ (notice white feet).

8070 is black hooded, +2; 8071 is gray hooded, +1¾; 8072 is gray, +5;
8073 is black, +5½; 8074 is gray, +5¾.

[Illustration: PLATE 3]
